
 
In many social and economic contexts individuals often face the choice to adopt different types of opportunistic or even illicit behavior to increase their welfare taking advantage of others for personal interests. It is common to see people cheating on taxes, free riding on public goods, claiming benefits without entitlement, bribing and corrupting public officials. Likewise, academic dishonesty is among these fraudulent behavior which is becoming a major concern and threat to education systems of almost all countries of the world.
 
**Download File ✒ [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0QEt](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0QEt)**


 
Similarly, Diekhoff et al. (1999) found that Japanese college students, as compared to US students, report higher levels of cheating tendencies, have a greater propensity to neutralize the severity of cheating behavior and are not as disturbed when observing someone cheating in class. Moreover, a comparative study conducted by Lupton et al. (2000) found significantly different levels of cheating between Polish and US business students. The Polish students reported much higher frequencies of cheating than their American counterparts and were more likely to feel it was not so bad to cheat on one exam or tell someone in a later section about an exam.
 
Academic dishonesty is not a new phenomenon, indeed it has been extensively studied in the academic context and empirical evidence indicates that it is changing and increasing in recent years (Davis et al. 2009; Yardley et al. 2009; Jensen et al. 2001; McCabe et al. 2001). Results regarding the influence of gender on cheating behavior have been mixed (Godfrey et al. 1993; Davis et al. 2009). Evidence for the gender differences in cheating vary with some studies showing strong differences and others showing no differences between males and females. A good number of studies (e.g. Kobayashi and Tedor 2012; Lupton and Chaqman 2002; Peled et al. 2013) have reported that academic cheating is more frequent in boys than in girls. On the other hand, Trost (2009) found no difference between male and female. Some other study by Jacobson and his colleagues as cited in Jensen et al. (2001), in contrary, reported that females are more likely to cheat than males.

On the other hand, Elias and Farag (2010) contend that business students with a love of money do not perceive certain cheating behaviors as being unethical, and are therefore, more likely to cheat. Morris and Kilian (2006) confirm this argument with their study conducted in seven US universities. They have found that undergraduate accounting majors and business major students report higher frequencies of cheating than other major students. Therefore, Oneill and Pfeiffer (2012) concludes that if accounting students lack academic integrity, then accounting scandals are not surprising. They suggest appropriate training in ethics is necessary for business students.
 
Researchers have shown that dishonesty in college, cheating in particular, is a predictor of unethical behavior in subsequent professional settings (Lupton and Chaqman 2002 & Lim and See 2001). In other words, people who engaged in dishonest behaviors during their college days continue to do so in their professional careers. Lupton and Chaqman reported that successful cheating behaviors in college carry over as a way of life after college. The works of Sims (1993) also confirmed this fact. Sim has found that people who engaged in dishonest behaviors during college are more likely to commit dishonest acts of greater severity at work.
 
Pilot testing was made to test and fit the instrument with the context of Universities in Ethiopia. Forty (40) students from the institute of technology participated in the pilot test and the Cronbach alpha coefficients of all the items included in the main study were acceptable with the coefficient values of 0.80 and above. Finally, as gaining accurate data on cheating is difficult, the researcher went to some effort to make sure that the students answered frankly and honestly. The students were informed at the beginning of the data collection sessions about purpose of the study and anonymity of their responses. In the actual data collection, the questionnaires were administered while students were in classroom, before the beginning of new session.
 
The purpose of the study was to assess perceived seriousness of academic cheating behaviors among undergraduate students. Depending on the nature of the data, quantitative data analysis techniques such as frequency, percentage, mean, independent t-test, one-way ANOVA, and chi-square were employed. Table 1 presents the perceived seriousness of academic cheating behaviors as rated by the respondents.
 
Descriptive statistics depicted in Table 4 suggest that a high percentage of respondents (about 93%) reported having allowed others to copy their answers during test or examination. Approximately 93% admitted that they have done an assignment/coursework for other students. Again more than 91% of the respondent reported that they have whispered answers to their friends during examination at least once. These findings might not be surprising as these behaviors rated as moderate cheating activities by the students (Table 1). Using text message to get/send answers in examinations recorded the lowest frequency at 16.33%. The study also examined whether there is an association between variables like gender and field of study (stream) and cheating behavior. To do this, a chi square test was applied and the results are indicated in the following tables Table 5.
 
As shown in Table 7, there is a significant difference between business and economics students and the remaining two colleges in cheating. This suggests that students of business and economics have engaged more in cheating behaviors than students of college of natural & computational sciences and social science & humanities. In other words, business and economics students engaged more in cheating behaviors than college of natural & computational sciences and social science & humanities.
 
The study also revealed that business and economics students have shown less ethical attitude towards academic dishonesty than students from the school of social science and humanities and school of natural and computational sciences. Moreover, the students of business and economics students have engaged in cheating more than students in the school of social science and humanities and natural and computational sciences. The same was found by Elias and Farag (2010). According to Elias and Farag, business students, with love of money, do not perceive certain cheating behaviors as unethical, and therefore, more likely to cheat than others. Another study by Morris and Kilian (2006) also found that undergraduate Accounting majors and business major students report higher frequencies of cheating than other major students. A recent study by Dyer et al. (2020) have also concluded that academic honesty runs particularly high among business students.
 
This study presented some limitations. First, data are based on self-reports which would may result in the vulnerability to socially response bias because of the sensitive nature of the topic. This may have resulted in under-reporting of cheating during tests and examinations. The researcher attempted to avoid this problem by guaranteeing complete anonymity and emphasizing the importance of honest answers to the questions. Future investigations shall collect such data also from other sources (e.g., institutional reports related to honor code violations) and informants (e.g., course mates and teachers). Second, being conducted in a single University and the small sample may not be representative of University students in Ethiopia. Thus, findings of this study should be replicated on other Universities with large number of students and varied compositions for comprehensive understanding of academic cheating. Despite the limitation, however, this study has shed some light with regard to how university students perceived academic cheating behaviors in the Ethiopian context.
 
From the findings, it would be concluded that cheating is rampant in the university and students seems to be tolerant of unethical academic behaviors. This conveys a clear message that academic institutions has revisit their academic integrity policies and take necessary measures to deter academic cheating as its impact goes beyond the individual impact of crossing a moral or ethical boundary. Chace (2012) and Mensah et al. (2016) underlined that it reduces the perceived academic integrity of the institution, devaluing degrees earned from that institution. Similalry, Wollack and Cizek (2017) added that academic cheating threatens the validity of those credentials. Students who cheat rather than learn to pass courses are less prepared for the workforce and are more likely to engage in behaviors that are similarly unethical (Smyth et al. 2009; Teixeira and Rocha 2010). In view of this, the researcher discussed the implications as follows;
 
Moreover, given the essential nature of academic integrity to the academic mission of an institution, preventing academic dishonesty on the most common form of assessment (testing) is of high value to many colleges and universities. In classrooms and in the test center environment, this threat to academic integrity should lead to very strict security rules. Students should be observed at all times while taking test and/or examination and invigilators must be able to intervene immediately if there is any unusual testing behavior.
 
Raw data and materials are not attached because of the fact the nature the data (being on academic cheating) may spoil the images of the institutions and/or departments. However, on request, the author could provide the data to concerned bodies.
 
I would like to thank the students who voluntaril