
 
The film was released on June 9, 2000 by Buena Vista Studios. Upon release, the film received mixed reviews from critics. It was criticized for its writing and its direction as well as the acting, although Nicolas Cage and Angelina Jolie's performances, as well as the action sequences, were praised. Despite the critical failure, the film was a commercial success, grossing over $237 million against a budget of $90 million.
 
**DOWNLOAD - [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Ql1](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Ql1)**


 
Kip Raines (Giovanni Ribisi), an aspiring car thief in Los Angeles, is working with his gang to steal fifty expensive cars for Raymond Calitri (Christopher Eccleston), a British gangster who has inexplicably taken over organized crime in Long Beach, via Calitri's associate, Atley Jackson (Will Patton). On the last heist, their antics bring attention by the police, and they narrowly avoid capture, though are forced to abandon the warehouse and the bulk of cars they stole. Detectives Castlebeck (Delroy Lindo) and Drycoff (Timothy Olyphant) seize the cars and begin an investigation.
 
Calitri kidnaps Kip and threatens to kill him for failing the job. Atley, sympathetic to Kip's plight, visit Kip's older brother, Randall "Memphis" Raines (Nicolas Cage), a former car thief having gone straight years before, and explains the situation. Memphis meets with Calitri to negotiate Kip's release, but in exchange, Calitri forces Memphis to agree to steal the fifty cars within 72 hours or else he will kill Kip. Memphis visits his mentor Otto Halliwell (Robert Duvall) and they assemble a crew, including Donny Astricky (Chi McBride), Sphynx (Vinnie Jones), and Sara "Sway" Wayland (Angelina Jolie), Memphis' old flame. Kip and his crew also offer to help. Knowing the police will be watchful for the thefts, Memphis suggests to steal all the cars in a twelve-hour period. The group starts to identify the target cars with Memphis giving each a female name. He plans on stealing a modified 1967 Ford Shelby GT500, dubbed "Eleanor", last, as he considers the car cursed, with all previous attempts to steal one gone awry. As they scout the car locations, Memphis is approached by Castlebeck and Drycoff. While they cannot charge him with any crime, they warn him that they are watching his activities closely. Later, the detectives discover that some of the previous Mercedes heists were accomplished by ordering laser cut transponder keys direct from Hamburg, Germany, and they set up stakeouts to watch those cars specifically.

On the night of the heists, most of the initial thefts go without problems, with the gang members delivering the cars to Calitri's dock. When Memphis and others prepare to steal the Mercedes with the transponder keys, he gets a sense of something amiss, and has the gang abandon those; instead, they successfully scheme a way to obtain those cars from the police impound. Castlebeck, furious that he could not catch Memphis in the act, returns to the seized warehouse to search for any more clues. They discover pieces of a blacklight lamp, and shortly discover the list of fifty cars written in ultraviolet-sensitive paint on the wall. Aware they cannot watch all those cars, Castleback focuses on the Shelby GT500, knowing Memphis' penchant for this car, and its rarity. They quickly locate the few Shelbys in the city.
 
Just as Memphis is about to take the Shelby, the detectives arrive. Memphis leads them and their police escort on a dangerous chase through the city, eventually ditching them near the docks. He delivers the damaged car to Calitri, who refuses it since Memphis was twelve minutes late and the car sustained damage. Calitri then has the Shelby crushed. Memphis again pleads for Calitri's mercy as he prepares to kill Memphis instead with a gun, but Kip and a repentant Atley overcome their guards, and force Calitri to flee into his dockside warehouse; Memphis gives chase just as Castlebeck and Drycoff arrive. Memphis and Calitri engage in a game of cat-and-mouse, the noise drawing the detectives inside. Just as Calitri has Memphis cornered, Castlebeck appears, confusing Calitri, who then prepares to execute Castlebeck. Memphis seizes the opportunity to rush Calitri and push him over a railing to his death, saving Castlebeck. Memphis tensely explains the situation to Castlebeck and where they can find the other stolen cars, and Castlebeck reluctantly lets Memphis and Kip go.
 
In 1995, Denice Shakarian Halicki entered into a license contract to produce the remake with Disney and Jerry Bruckheimer. Filming began in 1999, with Halicki as Executive Producer. The movie premiered on June 9, 2000.
 
The film garnered a mostly mixed reaction from critics. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports that 25% out of 137 reviews gave the film a positive review, with an average rating of 4.4/10. The website's critical consensus reads: "Even though Oscar-bearers Nicolas Cage, Angelina Jolie, and Robert Duvall came aboard for this project, the quality of *Gone in 60 Seconds* is disappointingly low. The plot line is nonsensical, and even the promised car-chase scenes are boring."[8] On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 35 out of 100, based on 34 critics, indicating "mixed reviews".[9]Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "B+" on an A+ to F scale.[10]
 
The film was shot throughout Los Angeles and Long Beach, California. It was released on June 9, 2000 by Buena Vista Studios. Upon release, *Gone in 60 Seconds* received mixed reviews from critics. It was criticized for its writing and its direction as well as the acting, although Nicolas Cage and Angelina Jolie's performances, as well as the action sequences, were praised. Despite the critical failure, the film was a commercial success, grossing over $237 million against a budget of $90 million.
 
Kip Raines (Giovanni Ribisi), an aspiring but hapless car thief in Los Angeles, is working with his gang to steal fifty high-end cars for Raymond Calitri (Christopher Eccleston), a British gangster who has taken over organized crime in Long Beach. Calitri's base is a salvage yard. He also has a passion for woodworking, and often builds coffins.
 
While stealing a Porsche 996, Kip smashes a window with a brick and later engages in an impromptu street race, and his reckless behavior attracts the attention of the police. Kip and his crew narrowly avoid capture, but are forced to abandon the warehouse and the cars they have stolen so far. Detectives Castlebeck (Delroy Lindo) and Drycoff (Timothy Olyphant) impound the cars and begin an investigation.
 
Calitri kidnaps Kip and threatens to kill him in a car crusher for failing the job. Calitri's associate, Atley Jackson (Will Patton) is sympathetic to Kip's plight, and visits Kip's older brother, Randall "Memphis" Raines (Nicolas Cage), a former car thief who went straight years before, to explain the situation. Memphis meets with Calitri to negotiate Kip's release, offering him money, which Calitri refuses. Calitri agrees to release Kip, but only if Memphis steals the fifty cars within 72 hours. If the cars are not delivered on time, Calitri will find and kill Kip.
 
Memphis visits his mentor Otto Halliwell (Robert Duvall) and they assemble a crew from Memphis' old associates, all of whom have gone straight since retiring. These include Donny Astricky (Chi McBride), who is now a driving instructor; Sphynx (Vinnie Jones), a mute mortician; and Sara "Sway" Wayland (Angelina Jolie), a mechanic and bartender, who previously had a romantic relationship with Memphis. Kip and his crew also volunteer to help. Knowing the police will be watchful for the thefts, Memphis suggests they steal all the cars within a twelve-hour period. The group starts to identify the target cars, giving each a female name so that they can talk about them without the police catching on. The last car on the list is a 1967 Ford Shelby GT500, dubbed "Eleanor". Memphis insists on saving this car for last. He has attempted to steal "Eleanor" on several occasions in the past, all of which ended in disaster. (It seems the name refers to the '67 GT500 in general, rather than this specific example.)
 
While scouting the car locations, Memphis runs into Castlebeck and Drycoff. While they cannot charge him with any crime, they warn him that they are watching his activities closely, citing that he will be arrested if he commits the slightest violation of the law. The detectives then talk to an informant who tells them that some of Kip's previous Mercedes heists were accomplished by ordering laser cut transponder keys direct from Hamburg, Germany. They set up stakeouts to watch those cars specifically.
 
Before the heists begin, a member of Kip's crew impulsively steals a Cadillac Eldorado that wasn't on the list, which he found unattended with the keys in it. They open the trunk and find a stash of heroin. While the crew are arguing about what to do with the car, Castlebeck and Drycoff show up. Memphis and the crew try to con the detectives, telling them the car was brought to their shop to be detailed. Castlebeck pretends to fall for this, but after leaving, reveals to Drycoff that he saw a list in the shop of all the police units working that night, proving that the heist is happening and Memphis is involved.
 
On the night of the heists, most of the initial thefts are successful, with the gang members delivering the cars to Calitri's dock. When Memphis and others prepare to steal the Mercedes with the transponder keys, Memphis spots Castlebeck and Drycoff watching him from a surveillance van, and has the gang abandon those cars. Instead, they decide to break into the police impound, distract the guard and steal the Mercedes from the original heist. This plan is hampered when Otto's dog eats the keys to the Mercedes, and the plan is delayed until the dog passes the keys.