
 
In a standard AC power supply, an electrical signal takes the shape of a sine wave. This is what the electric equipment at the end of the line consumes and uses to do work (powering lights, running motors, printing, running computer programs, etc.). Notice the even shape of the wave in the image below; each peak and crest has the same amplitude. In a 60-Hz system, this wave cycles up and down 60 times per second.
 
The orange sine wave represents the AC power signal at 60 Hz moving through a transformer to a load (such as a motor). The two blue waves are harmonics. Notice that these harmonic waves are not congruent with the fundamental one at 60 Hz; they appear at higher frequencies. At 180 Hz, the 3rd harmonic is three times greater than the 60-Hz fundamental frequency, and at 300 Hz, the 5th harmonic is five times greater, meaning they cycle up and down 180 and 300 times per second respectively. Since harmonics are integer multiples of the fundamental frequency, they always appear at significantly higher frequencies in electrical systems.
 
**DOWNLOAD — [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Pt8](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Pt8)**


 
In an electrical system, equipment consumes power linearly or nonlinearly. With linear loads, the consumption of power follows the same shape as the AC sine wave. If you think of the power supply like a sandwich, a linear load would eat the whole sandwich. Non-linear loads consume power in a way that does not follow the sinusoidal shape of the AC power supply (consuming certain portions of the wave shape at designated intervals). To use the sandwich analogy, non-linear loads may only consume a part of the sandwich, like the bun. Examples of linear loads would be motors or incandescent lighting. Examples of non-linear loads would be computers, electronic lighting ballasts, variable frequency drives, and fluorescent lighting. These non-linear loads and the particular manner in which they consume power produce harmonics.
 
As the figures below show, any harmonic (3rd, 5th, 7th, etc.) present in the electrical system will become superimposed upon the fundamental 60-Hz frequency, creating a complex, non-sinusoidal waveform. This non-sinusoidal component must be accounted for when estimating load requirements and sizing transformers that supply power to large nonlinear devices. The more harmonic distortion present in the system, the more non-sinusoidal the load current.
 
Transformers are typically built for usual service conditions unless specified otherwise by the customer. Applications with a significant amount of non-sinusoidal load current (or harmonic distortion), fall into the category of unusual service conditions. This non-sinusoidal component puts greater stress on conductor insulation and increases **winding and core losses** at the transformer, resulting in excessive heat levels and loss of power. The overheating effects of high-frequency harmonics are observed mainly at the coils, core, and neutral conductor of the transformer.
 
The third most common area of overheating in the transformer is the neutral conductor on wye-connected windings. With wye-connected systems, triplen harmonics (3rd, 9th, 15th, and so on) will be present. These particular frequencies are most often seen where transformers serve large single-phase loads. Any triplen harmonics present in one or more phases of the system will add together at the neutral conductor. These harmonics crowd together in the neutral and reduce its current-carrying capacity. If the amount of triplen harmonics is high enough, the neutral conductor will overheat and its insulation system will fail. For such cases, an oversized neutral is generally used.
 
Harmonic-mitigating (or zigzag) transformers (HMTs) do exactly what their name suggests: reduce the presence of harmonic currents in an electrical system. Unlike units designed with a K-factor rating, HMTs filter a portion of the harmonic content. The installation of a stand-alone HMT will reduce the amount of triplen harmonics (3rd, 9th, 15, etc.) present in a circuit. Installing an additional HMT on the same circuit with a -30 degree phase shift (when the first unit has a 0-degree phase shift, or vice versa) can further reduce the amount of 5th and 7th harmonics. This dual-unit phase shift method can also be accomplished with standard delta-wye transformers, but a zigzag winding offers a more economic solution. HMTs are generally used for systems that operate several non-linear loads.
 
For systems where only triplen harmonics are present, a standard delta-wye transformer may be a sufficient solution. As mentioned earlier, triplen harmonics often cause problems for the neutral conductor, but when a delta winding is present on the primary side of a two-winding transformer, the triplen harmonics will circulate inside the delta winding instead of the neutral conductor. If a study of the harmonic profile of a system shows that only 3rd, 9th, or 15th harmonics are significantly present, a standard delta-wye transformer will be a sufficient solution. A delta-wye transformer also eliminates the problem of zero sequence currents, which are characteristic of wye-wye connected windings. For this reason, delta-wye winding configurations are often favored for applications where the load may be unbalanced.
 
It is key to note there are certain special design considerations made when building K-rated transformers which are not included with standard designs, such as the electrostatic shield and 200% rated neutral. Also, K-rated transformers sometimes include specially shaped winding conductors to reduce the increase in heat and resistance from harmonics. If triplen harmonics can be effectively mitigated at the transformer with a delta winding (negating the need for the larger 200% rated neutral), and if there is no need for electrostatic shielding, applying a derating factor and oversizing the distribution transformer can be a simple and effective solution. For more information on this method, take a look at **this article on sizing transformers for crypto mining**.

The topic of harmonics will continue to require attention wherever electronic innovation and non-linear loads make up a significant portion of the demand in electrical circuits. Without proper counter-measures, harmonic distortion can lead to costly repairs and replacement. Our goal at Maddox is to meet these growing demands in the electrical industry with transformers designed and built for such applications, ensuring peak performance and longevity of service on every project.
 
Maddox offers all five of the above solutions to ensure that you have access to the equipment you need, when you need it. If you have questions about harmonics or want to request a quote for a Maddox transformer, fill out the form below or give us a call at 1-800-270-2011.
 
For my Circuits II final design project I am given an old transformer that needs to have its power factor corrected to 1 but I am a bit unclear what needs to be done. I'm using this post Power Factor Correction as a reference for power factor information, but I don't really understand it.
 
Power factor correction of a linear inductive load is exactly the same as tuning a parallel circuit of a capacitor and inductor. You pick a capacitor that works with the value of the transformer's magnetizing inductance to satisfy this: -
 
In Part 1, we introduced testing of the liquid power factor of insulating liquids as a tool for evaluating oil-filled transformers. Here, we are going to discuss the values we obtain from liquid power factor tests and what these values indicate. We are going to introduce typical and specification values for new, unused oil and newly installed oil in transformers, as well as acceptable, questionable, and unacceptable values for In-service oil.
 
When liquid power factor determinations are run on transformer oil, they are usually run at two temperatures: 25C and 100C. This is done because the two readings, and how they change over time, can be useful in diagnosing which condition (moisture, oil oxidation, or contamination) is causing a high power factor. Further, the 100C value is many times more sensitive to small changes in oil characteristics.
 
When we evaluate the results for purposes of establishing a service recommendation, the 100C value is always considered more carefully than the 25C value. QU or UN values for liquid power factor should be investigated and the cause should be diagnosed. Reclaiming the oil or hot oil cleaning the transformer will reduce the liquid power factor. Drying out the oil may also improve the liquid power factor, particularly the 25C reading.
 
based on a high liquid power factor reading. Chemical changes in the oil may occasionally cause elevated liquid power factor values. These high readings are usually temporary and are not of concern. If elevated values persist, and they continue to appear in the next annual testing, then the cause should be identified and corrected, if appropriate.
 
Extremely elevated liquid power factors at 100C in transformer oil usually indicate contamination. Care must be taken when dealing with fluids other than transformer oil because some of these either have naturally high liquid power factor values when new, or develop high values very soon after being put in-service. For these fluids, liquid power factor may not always be an appropriate test for monitoring in-service degradation of the insulating liquid.
 
The most common cause of transformer failure is a breakdown in the dielectric system. As a transformer and its accessories move through the thermal cycle, high temperatures combined with moisture, oxygen and other contaminants, are the catalyst for the gradual degradation of the dielectric system. This process is accelerated if a transformer is frequently overloaded.
 
To reduce the likelihood of failure, periodic main