***Semele*** (HWV 58) is a 'musical drama', originally presented "after the manner of an oratorio",[1] in three parts by George Frideric Handel. Based on an existing opera libretto by William Congreve, the work is an opera in all but name but was first presented in concert form at Covent Garden theatre on 10 February 1744. The story comes from Ovid's *Metamorphoses* and concerns Semele, mother of Bacchus. Handel also referred to the work as 'The Story of Semele'. The work contains the famous aria "Where'er you walk".
 
The work fuses elements of opera, oratorio and classical drama. *Semele* was presented during Lent, one of Handel's regular oratorio seasons. However it was not what London audiences were expecting of an oratorio during the solemn season of Lent. *Semele* has a secular text with a story involving an adulterous sexual relationship. It is distinguished from Handel's operas by the large number of polyphonic choruses.[2] *Semele* was performed four times during its original run, and twice again later the same year, but those were the only performances in Handel's lifetime. Today *Semele* is frequently fully staged and receives regular performances at many of the world's opera houses, as well as performances in concert form.
 
**Download Zip ••• [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Qo5](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Qo5)**


 
*Semele* was first performed on 10 February 1744 at the Covent Garden Theatre, London, as part of a concert series held yearly during Lent. The audience naturally expected Bible-based subject matter. But the amorous topic of *Semele*, which is a creation of the late Restoration Period, transparently drew on Greek myths, and so it displeased those attending for a different kind of uplift. Being in English, *Semele* likewise irritated the supporters of true Italian opera, particularly as Handel would also not write for the rival Middlesex Opera Company. Winton Dean writes in his book *Handel's Dramatic Oratorios*:
 
The public [in 1744] found [*Semele's*] tone too close to that of the discredited Italian opera and set it down as an oratorio *manqu*; where they expected wholesome Lenten bread, they received a glittering stone dug from the ruins of Greek mythology.[4]
 
As a result, only four performances took place. The cast at the premire included Elisabeth Duparc ('La Francesina') in the title role, Esther Young as Juno (and Ino), and John Beard as Jupiter. Henry Reinhold sang the bass roles. Handel seems to have interchanged some of the music between singers.
 
Later, on 1 and 8 December 1744, Handel presented a revised version, this time at the King's Theatre, after cutting four sections of dialogue containing sexual innuendo and making additions that included interspersed arias in Italian (for the opera crowd) from Arminio and Giustino.
 
The American stage premire took place at the Ravinia Festival near Chicago in 1959. *Semele* was performed in Washington, DC, in 1980, and at Carnegie Hall, New York, in 1985, on the latter occasion with Kathleen Battle in the title role and John Nelson conducting. (A recording with a similar cast was made in 1990 and issued on the Deutsche Grammophon label.)
 
In 1999, *Semele* returned to the English National Opera in London in a highly regarded production by Robert Carsen. Rosemary Joshua played Semele, John Mark-Ainsley was Jupiter, Susan Bickley as Juno, and Sarah Connolly the sister Ino. The production was revived in 2004 with Carolyn Sampson (Semele), Ian Bostridge (Jupiter) and Patricia Bardon (Juno).
 
In 2004 a staged production directed by David McVicar and conducted by Marc Minkowski opened at the Thtre des Champs-lyses in Paris. (This was revived in 2010 by conductor Christophe Rousset.)[*citation needed*]

A new production opened at New York City Opera on 13 September 2006. Directed by Stephen Lawless, it made metaphorical references to Marilyn Monroe, U.S. presidents John F. Kennedy, Bill Clinton, and George W. Bush, and Jacqueline Kennedy. Elizabeth Futral sang Semele, Vivica Genaux portrayed Juno (and Ino), and Robert Breault sang Jupiter.[*citation needed*]
 
In 2007, Zrich Opera in Switzerland mounted Robert Carsen's 1999 production of *Semele* as a vehicle for Cecilia Bartoli, with Birgit Remmert and Charles Workman [de] as Juno and Jupiter and William Christie conducting. This staging was taped, issued as a Decca DVD, and successfully transferred (in 2010) to Vienna's Theater an der Wien.[*citation needed*]
 
*A pleasant country, the prospect terminated by a beautiful mountain adorn'd with woods and waterfalls. Juno and Iris descend in different machines. Juno in a chariot drawn by peacocks; Iris on a rainbow; they alight and meet.*
 
Semele awakes and regrets that the dream she was having of being with her lover has ended (aria: "O sleep, why dost thou leave me?"). When Jupiter enters, in the form of a young man, she tells him how difficult it is for her when he is absent. He explains that she is a mortal, unlike him, and needs to rest from their love-making from time to time. He attempts to assure her of his fidelity (aria: "Lay your doubts and fears aside"). Semele sings of her passionate love for him (aria: "With fond desiring"). The chorus of Loves and Zephyrs sing of lovers' joys (chorus: "How engaging, how endearing"). Semele, however, is beginning to be unhappy that her lover is a god and she a mere mortal. This sign of an ambition to immortality from Semele worries Jupiter who decides he must distract her from such thoughts (aria: "I must with speed amuse her"). The Loves and Zephyrs advise Semele to put aside worries and enjoy the delights of love while she can (chorus: "Now Love that everlasting boy invites"). Jupiter has arranged for Semele's sister Ino to be magically transported to the palace, to keep her company, and promises that the gardens and environs will be paradise (aria: "Where'er you walk"). He leaves, and Ino appears, describing the wondrous experience of being flown there by winged zephyrs (aria: "But hark, the heav'nly sphere turns round"). The sisters sing of the joy they are experiencing, hearing the music of the spheres (duet: "Prepare then, ye immortal choir") and nymphs and swains declare that this part of the earth has become a heaven (chorus: "Bless the glad earth").
 
Juno and Iris arrive and wake Somnus (accompanied recitative: "Somnus, awake"), to his displeasure (aria: "Leave me, loathsome light"). He only gets out of bed when he hears Juno mention the beautiful nymph Pasithea (aria: "More sweet is that name"). Juno promises he will have the nymph if he will lend her magical aid to put the dragons that guard the palace where Semele is ensconced as her husband's mistress to sleep and transform her into the likeness of Semele's sister Ino. Somnus agrees (duet: "Obey my will").
 
Semele is still feeling rather unhappy about the discrepancy between herself and her lover (aria: "My racking thoughts"). Juno, in the form of Semele's sister Ino, enters and feigns astonishment at Semele's increased beauty. She exclaims that Semele must have become a goddess herself and gives her a mirror ("Behold in this mirror"). Semele is enraptured by her own beauty (aria: "Myself I shall adore"). "Ino" advises Semele to insist that Jupiter appear to her in his real, godlike form, and that will make her immortal herself (accompanied recitative: "Conjure him by his oath"). Semele is very grateful for this advice (aria: "Thus let my thanks be paid"). "Ino" leaves and Jupiter enters, eager to enjoy Semele (aria: "Come to my arms, my lovely fair") but she puts him off (aria: "I ever am granting"). He swears to give her whatever she desires (accompanied recitative: "By that tremendous flood, I swear") and she makes him promise to appear to her in his godlike form (accompanied recitative: "Then cast off this human shape"). He is alarmed and says that would harm her (aria: "Ah, take heed what you press"), but she insists he keep his oath (aria: "No, no, I'll take no less") and leaves. Jupiter knows this will mean her destruction and mourns her impending doom (accompanied recitative: "Ah, whither is she gone"). Juno triumphs in the success of her scheme (aria: "Above measure is the pleasure").
 
*The scene discovers Semele under a canopy, leaning pensively, while a mournful symphony is playing. She looks up and sees Jupiter descending in a cloud; flashes of lightning issue from either side, and thunder is heard grumbling in the air.*
 
Semele, granted her wish to see Jupiter in his true godlike form, is consumed by his thunderbolts, and as she dies she regrets her own foolishness and ambition (accompanied recitative: "Ah me! Too late I now repent"). Watching this, the priests of Juno express their amazement (chorus: "Oh, terror and astonishment!"). Athamas is now glad to accept Ino as his bride (aria: "Despair no more shall wound me"). The god Apollo descends on a cloud and announces that the unborn child of Semele and Jupiter will arise from her ashes (accompanied recitative: "Apollo comes, to relieve your care"). The child will be Bacchus, god of wine and ecstasy, a god "more mighty than love". All celebrate the fortunate outcome (chorus: "Happy, happy shall we be").[12][13]
 
The pleasure-loving and vain Semele is aptly characterised through Handel's music. The work contains one of Handel's most famous arias, the lyrical "Where'er you walk" for the tenor, with words from Alexander Pope's *The Pastorals*. Comedy is interwoven into the drama, notably in the scene in the cave of the god of sleep. The monumental chorus "O terror! and astonishment" after Semele's death shows the influence of the earlier English composer Henry Purcell.[12]
 
Her granddaughter, Carlie Toliver, remembers Barbara as a vibrant woman. When Carlie was little, they played pretend games like they had a McDonald's drive-thru, and Barbara tickled Carlie with a little toy mouse.
 