
 
(NOTE: I have read the topic re "books for self-studying time series analysis," this question is intended to be different in a very specific way, and I am looking for answers that would not be relevant to that topic's OP).
 
I very much like Hamilton's Time Series Analysis book in terms of both the breadth of coverage and the depth (i.e., not too shallow not too deep relative to my personal taste and training). Also, I am in the economics / investment management field so I like the slant on economic topics. What I DON'T like is that it's not available on e-book - a lot of my reading time is while commuting, etc, and it's hard to haul around a book that's bulkier than my laptop. I have inquired and there seems to be no intention of bringing it out on Kindle / Google Books / etc.
 
**Download ✯✯✯ [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Q62](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Q62)**


 
So, my question is: Can someone here who is familiar with Hamilton and "similar" texts recommend something that has similar depth and scope, but is available on Kindle or Google Books (and if it's on Kindle, with the additional requirement that the equations actually render properly). Of course being written less than 21 years ago might also help, but I'll settle for older books all things being equal.
 
I recommend Time Series Analysis and Its Applications: With R Examples. It's not from econometrics perspective though. The plus is that it comes with R package called astsa, which is a great piece of software in itself.
 
Using the same convention as in Hastie, Friedman, and Tibshirani (2001), the symbol ? indicates a technically difficult section which may be skipped without interrupting the flow of the discussion.
 
This is not the first (or the last) book that has been written on time series analysis. Indeed, this can be seen as a book that brings together and reorganizes information and material from other sources structuring and tailoring it to a course in basic time series analysis. The main and excellent references (which are far from being an exhaustive review of literature) that can be used to have a more in-depth view of different aspects treated in this book are Cochrane (2005), Hamilton (1994) and Shumway and Stoffer (2010).
 
The authors are particularly grateful to James Balamuta who introduced them to the use of the different tools provided by the RStudio environment and greatly contributed to an earlier version of this book:
 
The last decade has brought dramatic changes in the way that researchers analyze economic and financial time series. This book synthesizes these recent advances and makes them accessible to first-year graduate students. James Hamilton provides the first adequate text-book treatments of important innovations such as vector autoregressions, generalized method of moments, the economic and statistical consequences of unit roots, time-varying variances, and nonlinear time series models. In addition, he presents basic tools for analyzing dynamic systems (including linear representations, autocovariance generating functions, spectral analysis, and the Kalman filter) in a way that integrates economic theory with the practical difficulties of analyzing and interpreting real-world data. "Time Series Analysis" fills an important need for a textbook that integrates economic theory, econometrics, and new results. The book is intended to provide students and researchers with a self-contained survey of time series analysis. It starts from first principles and should be readily accessible to any beginning graduate student, while it is also intended to serve as a reference book for researchers.
 
We present the results of time series analysis on the Hα profile variations in 7 T Tauri stars (TTS). All stars show strong line profile variability. Included in the data are 37 almost fully contiguous nights of profile data on 5 TTS. For these stars (T Tau, RY Tau, DF Tau, DR Tau, and RW Aur) our temporal sampling is adequate to look for periodicities. We detect periodic variations on the red side of the profile near the peak of the line in two of our stars (7.3 days in DF Tau and 5.1 days in DR Tau). The periods recovered and the location in the line profiles displaying the periodicity do not provide the convincing support for magnetocentrifugally controlled accretion and wind generation which SU Aur exhibited. The other stars show no evidence for periodic profile behavior. Correlation analysis shows that the blue-shifted absorption component of the line profile visible in most of these stars varies on a longer time scale and is basically uncorrelated with the rest of the line profiles. We interpret this as evidence for this feature forming far from the star and that the velocity of this feature indicates the terminal velocity of the flow from TTS seen in Ra, which is substantially below escape velocity. We find that TTS Hα profile variations are not due to global changes in the physical parameters of the wind and accretion flows surrounding these stars but instead represent smaller- scale stochastic variability. Changes in the profiles tend to occur in discrete velocity patches rather than across the whole line. Over most of the profile the time scale for this tends to be less than two days. While of the general nature of a "stochastic wind," the variations differ substantially in detail from a model which has been proposed for this. A new result is the common appearance of variance peaks on the red side of Hα as well. These peaks are likely indirect evidence of variable accretion seen in this line, which rarely shows overt red-shifted absorption.

Many economic time series occasionally exhibit dramatic breaks in their behaviour, associated with events such as financial crises (Jeanne and Masson, 2000; Cerra and Saxena, 2005; Hamilton, 2005) or abrupt changes in government policy (Hamilton, 1988; Sims and Zha, 2006; Davig, 2004). Of particular interest to economists is the apparent tendency of many economic variables to behave quite differently during economic downturns, when underutilization of factors of production rather than their long-run tendency to grow governs economic dynamics (Hamilton, 1989; Chauvet and Hamilton, 2006). Abrupt changes are also a prevalent feature of financial data, and the approach described below is quite amenable to theoretical calculations for how such abrupt changes in fundamentals should show up in asset prices (Ang and Bekaert, 2002a; 2000b; Garcia, Luger and Renault, 2003; Dai, Singleton and Yang, 2003).
 
**Description:** Forecasting plays an important role in business planning and decision-making. This Ph.D.-level course discusses time series models that have been widely used in business and economic data analysis and forecasting. Both theory and methods of the models are discussed. Real examples are used throughout the course to illustrate applications. The topics covered include: (1) stationary and unit-root non-stationary processes; (2) linear dynamic models, including Autoregressive Moving Average models; (3) model building and data analysis; (4) prediction and forecasting evaluation; (5) asymptotic theory for estimation including unit-root theory; (6) models for time varying volatility; (7) models for time varying correlation including Dynamic Conditional Correlation and time varying factor models.; (9) state-space models and Kalman filter; and (10) models for high frequency data. Course description is subject to change. Please visit the Booth portal and search via the course search tool for the most up to date information:
 
The last decade has brought dramatic changes in the way that researchers analyze economic and financial time series. This book synthesizes these recent advances and makes them accessible to first-year graduate students. James Hamilton provides the first adequate text-book treatments of important innovations such as vector autoregressions, generalized method of moments, the economic and statistical consequences of unit roots, time-varying variances, and nonlinear time series models. In addition, he presents basic tools for analyzing dynamic systems (including linear representations, autocovariance generating functions, spectral analysis, and the Kalman filter) in a way that integrates economic theory with the practical difficulties of analyzing and interpreting real-world data. *Time Series Analysis* fills an important need for a textbook that integrates economic theory, econometrics, and new results.
 
The book is intended to provide students and researchers with a self-contained survey of time series analysis. It starts from first principles and should be readily accessible to any beginning graduate student, while it is also intended to serve as a reference book for researchers.
 
"I am extremely enthusiastic about this book. I think it will quickly become a classic. Like Sargent's and Varian's texts, it will be a centerpiece of the core cirriculum for graduate students."**--John H. Cochrane, University of Chicago**
 
Professionally I am analysing high-frequency data coming from motion sensors and alike.I would like to "up my theoretical background game" in this area and am therefore looking for recommendations to books about (I guess) statistics and probability theory concerning time series pehomena.
 
Hamilton "Time Series" -LinkIt is a LONG book (816 pages) but actually does not cover THAT much material. However, instead it is very user-friendly which provides a lot of details for the material it covers. It is a standard reference in Economics PhD classes for Time Series (which are important topics for macroeconomists).
 
Brockwell "Time Series: Theory and Methods" Link - This used to be (still is?) the main reference for Time Series back in the day for those theoretically inclined. Heavy on mathematics, so only for people with strong mathematics/statistics background.
 
I have found there