
 
A. In addition to the grounds for mandatory suspension or revocation provided for in chapters 3, 4 and 5 of this title, the department shall immediately suspend the driver license or privilege to drive or refuse to issue a driver license or privilege to drive of a person who commits a violation of section 4-244, paragraph 34 while the person is eighteen, nineteen or twenty years of age on receipt of the record of the person's conviction for a violation of section 4-244, paragraph 34 for a period of two years.
 
**Download File → [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0PG9](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0PG9)**


 
B. If ordered by the court, the department shall restrict the person's privilege to drive between the person's home, school and place of employment during specified periods of time according to the person's school and employment schedule.
 
C. If a person's privilege to drive is restricted as prescribed in subsection B of this section, the department shall issue a special ignition interlock restricted driver license to the person pursuant to section 28-1401.

D. For the purposes of this section, "conviction" means a final conviction or judgment, including an order of the juvenile court finding that a juvenile violated any provision of this title or committed a delinquent act that if committed by an adult would constitute a criminal offense.
 
Precipitation is one of the most important climate variables. The largest impact of future climate changes on the society will likely come from changes in precipitation patterns and variability. However, it is still a big challenge for coupled global climate models (CGCMs) to realistically simulate the regional patterns, temporal variations, and correct combination of frequency and intensity of precipitation (McAvaney et al. 2001; Covey et al. 2003; Trenberth et al. 2003; Meehl et al. 2005). The difficulty arises from the complexity of precipitation processes in the atmosphere that include cloud microphysics, cumulus convection, planetary boundary layer processes, large-scale circulations, and many others. Errors in simulated precipitation fields often indicate deficiencies in the representation of these physical processes in the model. It is therefore important to analyze precipitation for model evaluation and development.
 
Previous analyses of model precipitation have mostly focused on mean patterns of precipitation amount (e.g., Hulme 1991; Srinivasan et al. 1995; Gates et al. 1999; Dai et al. 2001; Delworth et al. 2002; Covey et al. 2003; Rasch et al. 2006). However, precipitation is episodic and does not have continuous values like temperature and other climate variables. Precipitation can also have different types (e.g., convective versus stratiform) and phases (i.e., solid versus liquid). To fully characterize precipitation, it is necessary to examine its other properties, such as frequency and intensity, in addition to amount. Furthermore, detailed information regarding precipitation types (Dai 2001a), categories (e.g., light versus heavy; Sun et al. 2005), and diurnal variations (Dai 2001b) can also reveal deficiencies in various model physics such as moist convective and large-scale precipitation parameterizations.
 
The paper is organized as follows: section 2 first describes the models, datasets, and analysis method. Section 3 discusses precipitation spatial patterns, whose associated biases in SST and cloud cover are described in section 4. Precipitation interannual variability is shown in section 5, while convective versus stratiform precipitation is discussed in section 6. Sections 7 and 8 discuss daily precipitation (frequency and intensity) and the subdaily (i.e., diurnal) variations, respectively. A summary is given in section 9.
 
All of the models produce convective and stratiform (i.e., large scale) precipitation separately through cumulus convection and large-scale precipitation parameterizations (Table 2). Except for the lagged convective adjustment scheme (INM-CM3.0), the modified Emanuel (1991) scheme [Institut Pierre Simon Laplace (IPSL)-Climate Model (CM) 4], and the subgrid plume and buoyancy-based scheme (GISS-AOM), the deep convection schemes that produce convective precipitation in most models are based the mass flux approach. This approach uses either spectral cloud ensemble models similar to Arakawa and Schubert (1974; hereafter AS) (e.g., GFDL-CM2.x, MIROC3.2, and MRI-CGCM2.3.2a) or a bulk cloud ensemble model [e.g., Centre National de Recherches Mtorologiques (CNRM)-climate model, version 3 (CM3), Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization (CSIRO)-Mark (Mk) 3.0, fifth-generation ECHAM (ECHAM5)/Max-Planck Institute (MPI)-Ocean Model (OM), GISS-ER, Hadley Centre Coupled Model, version 3 (HadCM3), and Hadley Centre Global Environmental Model (HadGEM1)]. In the bulk flux method, only one single cloud model is used to represent an average over all cloud types within a convective ensemble. Unlike the spectral method, the bulk method neither uses explicit assumptions on the mass and thermodynamic budgets of subensembles of cumulus clouds, nor provides information on the mass spectrum of various cloud types. Furthermore, the entrainment and detrainment rates in the bulk method are often set to correctly estimate the maximum cloud-top height, whereas they are dependent on the spectral cloud distribution in the spectral method. The two methods were shown to produce similar total vertical cloud mass fluxes for tropical convection (Yanai et al. 1976).
 
Other important features of the cumulus parameterizations include closure assumptions, triggering mechanisms, and parameterization of convective-scale precipitation-driven downdrafts. Most schemes use a closure based on the assumption that convective available potential energy (CAPE) is consumed by cumulus convection over a given time scale (a few hours) (CAPE closure, e.g., ZM, ECHAM5). The AS schemes based on Pan and Randall (1998) employ a prognostic closure using the cumulus kinetic energy (e.g., MIROC3.2, MRI-CGCM2.3.2a). Some of the bulk mass flux schemes use a closure based on a stability-dependent mass flux (e.g., CSIRO-Mk3.0, GISS-ER). The primary triggering mechanisms in these cumulus schemes are based on either CAPE [or its equivalent cloud work function (CWF) in AS ] or local parcel buoyancy. The former measures the instability based on the vertical integral of parcel buoyant energy, while the latter measures the instability by lifting a parcel through a specific distance or between two model layers. More information on these and other aspects of the cumulus parameterizations can be found in Xie et al. (2002) and the references given in Table 2.
 
Detailed information is difficult to obtain regarding how large-scale (i.e., stratiform) precipitation is produced in all of the models. In general, most models have prognostic treatment of cloud condensates from which grid-scale precipitation is derived (Table 2), while others (e.g., CGCM3.1, GISS-AOM, MRI-CGCM2.3.2a, and PCM) produce large-scale precipitation when relative humidity is supersaturated. Some models often execute the cumulus convection parameterization before the large-scale parameterization, but this information is unavailable for many of the models.
 
The twentieth-century climate simulations started from a condition of the late nineteenth century (mainly in terms of atmospheric contents of trace gases and solar irradiance) by branching out from a preindustrial control run. Historical time series (usually without spatial and seasonal variations) of atmospheric CO2 and other greenhouse gases, sulfate aerosol direct effects, and volcanic and solar forcing were generally included in these model simulations, although specific treatments of these forcings vary among the models. The forcing differences should not affect our results because we focus on the climatologic patterns and variability.
 
The 3-hourly data were first stratified by season and then averaged over the days and years for each 3-h period to derive composite seasonal-mean diurnal cycles. Then, the amplitude and phase of the diurnal (24 h) harmonic were estimated based on the composite diurnal curves at each grid box. More details of the diurnal analysis can be found in Dai et al. (1999) and Dai (2001b).
 
To save space and be concise, we only show results for selected models in some of the figures. In these plots, the models are selected either to show the worst, best, and average cases or are popular in the literature. In most of the cases, we mention the other models in the text or in figure captions.
 
The above model deficiencies in tropical precipitation are related to biases in SST fields (Fig. 5), as in previous generations of CGCMs (e.g., Mechoso et al. 1995). The flux-corrected models (CGCM3.1 and MRI-CGCM2.3.2a) have the most realistic SST patterns in the Tropics, although Atlantic SST in CGCM3.1 is too warm off equatorial Africa. The cold tongue of SST in the equatorial eastern Pacific extends to the central Pacific in most models, such as CCSM3, GFDL-CM2.1, ECHAM5, HadGEM1, CSIRO-Mk3.0, CNRM-CM3, INM-CM3.0, and MIROC3.2, while GISS-ER does not have a SST cold tongue at all [SST over the cold tongue region in GISS-AOM is also too warm (over 27C)]. Associated with this extended SST cold tongue, an unrealistic narrow band of minimum precipitation exists over the equatorial central and eastern Pacific in all these models (Fig. 1). This minimum rainbelt is an integral part of the double-ITCZ pattern. On the other hand, the SST cold tongue does not extend to the coast of South America as in observations in many models, such as FGOALS-g.10 and HadCM3, and, to a lesser extent, GFDL-CM2.1 and CCSM3. The SST biases along coastal South America are likely related to weak oceanic upwelling and biases in marine stratus clouds, while the SST errors in the central Pacific may be related to