A **soundtrack**[2] is a recorded audio signal accompanying and synchronised to the images of a book, drama, motion picture, radio program, television program, or video game; colloquially, a commercially released soundtrack album of music as featured in the soundtrack of a film, video, or television presentation; or the physical area of a film that contains the synchronised recorded sound.[1]
 
In movie industry terminology usage, a sound track is an audio recording created or used in film production or post-production. Initially, the dialogue, sound effects, and music in a film each has its own separate track, and these are mixed together to make what is called the *composite track,* which is heard in the film. A *dubbing track* is often later created when films are dubbed into another language. This is also known as an M&E (music and effects) track. M&E tracks contain all sound elements minus dialogue, which is then supplied by the foreign distributor in the native language of its territory.
 
**Download ✑ ✑ ✑ [https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Qvj](https://passrogmisslo.blogspot.com/?file=2A0Qvj)**


 
Current dictionary entries for soundtrack document soundtrack as a noun, and as a verb.[3][4] An early attempt at popularizing the term *sound track* was printed in the magazine *Photoplay* in 1929.[5] A 1992 technical dictionary entry in the *Academic Press Dictionary of Science and Technology* does not distinguish between the form sound track and soundtrack.[6]
 
The contraction *soundtrack* came into public consciousness with the advent of so-called *soundtrack albums* in the late 1940s. First conceived by movie companies as a promotional gimmick for new films, these commercially available recordings were labeled and advertised as "music from the original motion picture *soundtrack*", or "music from and inspired by the motion picture." These phrases were soon shortened to just "original motion picture *soundtrack*." More accurately, such recordings are made from a film's *music track,* because they usually consist of isolated music from a film, not the composite (sound) track with dialogue and sound effects.
 
The term **original soundtrack (OST)**, often used for titles of albums of soundtrack music, is sometimes also used to differentiate the original music heard and recorded versus a rerecording or cover version.
 
The soundtrack to the 1937 Walt Disney animated film *Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs* was the first commercially issued film soundtrack.[8] It was released by RCA Victor Records on multiple 78 RPM discs in January 1938 as *Songs from Walt Disney's Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (with the Same Characters and Sound Effects as in the Film of That Title)* and has since seen numerous expansions and reissues.
 
The first live-action musical film to have a commercially issued soundtrack album was MGM's 1946 film biography of *Show Boat* composer Jerome Kern, *Till the Clouds Roll By*. The album was originally issued as a set of four 10-inch 78-rpm records. Only eight selections from the film were included in this first edition of the album. In order to fit the songs onto the record sides the musical material needed editing and manipulation. This was before tape existed, so the record producer needed to copy segments from the playback discs used on set, then copy and re-copy them from one disc to another adding transitions and cross-fades until the final master was created. Needless to say, it was several generations removed from the original and the sound quality suffered for it. The playback recordings were purposely recorded very *dry* (without reverberation); otherwise it would come across as too hollow sounding in large movie theatres. This made these albums sound flat and boxy.
 
MGM Records called these "original cast albums" in the style of Decca Broadway show cast albums mostly because the material on the discs would not lock to picture, thereby creating the largest distinction between 'Original *Motion Picture* Soundtrack' which, in its strictest sense would contain music that would lock to picture if the home user would play one alongside the other and 'Original *Cast* Soundtrack' which in its strictest sense would refer to studio recordings of film music by the original film cast, but which had been edited or rearranged for time and content and would not lock to picture.[9]

In reality, however, soundtrack producers remain ambiguous about this distinction, and titles in which the music on the album *does* lock to picture may be labeled as OCS and music from an album that does *not* lock to picture may be referred to as OMPS.
 
The phrase "recorded directly from the soundtrack" was used for a while in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s to differentiate material that would lock to picture from that which would not (excluding alternate masters and alternate vocals or solos). However, partly because many 'film takes' actually consisted of several different attempts at the song edited together, over time that term became nebulous as well. For example, in cases where the master take used in the film could not be found in its isolated form (without the M&E), the aforementioned alternate masters and alternate vocal and solo performances might be used instead.
 
As a result of all this ambiguity, over the years the term *soundtrack* began to be commonly applied to any recording from a film, whether taken from the actual film soundtrack or re-recorded in the studio at an earlier or later time. The term is also sometimes used for Broadway cast recordings.
 
Contributing to the vagueness of the term are projects such as *The Sound of Music Live!*, which was filmed live on the set for an NBC holiday season special first broadcast in 2013. The *album*, released three days before the broadcast, contained studio pre-recordings by the original cast of all the songs used in the special, but because only the orchestral portion of the material from the album is the same as that used in the special (i.e., the vocals were sung live over a prerecorded track), this creates a similar technicality. Although the *instrumental music bed* from the CD will lock to picture, the vocal performances will not (although it is possible to create a complete soundtrack recording by lifting the vocal performances from the DVD, erasing the alternate vocal masters from the CD and combining the two).
 
Film score albums did not really become popular until the LP era, although a few were issued in 78-rpm albums. Alex North's score for the 1951 film version of *A Streetcar Named Desire* was released on a 10-inch LP by Capitol Records and sold so well that the label rereleased it on one side of a 12-inch LP with some of Max Steiner's film music on the reverse.
 
Steiner's score for *Gone with the Wind* has been recorded many times, but when the film was reissued in 1967, MGM Records finally released an album of the famous score recorded directly from the soundtrack. Like the 1967 rerelease of the film, this version of the score was artificially *enhanced for stereo*. In recent years, Rhino Records has released a 2-CD set of the complete *Gone With the Wind* score, restored to its original mono sound.
 
One of the biggest-selling film scores of all time was John Williams' music from the movie *Star Wars*. Many film score albums go out of print after the films finish their theatrical runs and some have become extremely rare collectors' items.
 
In a few rare instances an entire film dialogue track was issued on records. The 1968 Franco Zeffirelli film of *Romeo and Juliet* was issued as a 4-LP set, as a single LP with musical and dialogue excerpts, and as an album containing only the film's musical score. The ground-breaking film *Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?* was issued by Warner Bros Records as a 2-LP set containing virtually all the dialogue from the film. RCA Victor also issued a double-album set what was virtually all the dialogue from the film soundtrack of *A Man for All Seasons*, Decca Records issued a double-album for *Man of La Mancha* and Disney Music Group (formerly Buena Vista Records) issued a similar double-album for its soundtrack for *The Hobbit*.
 
A soundtrack typically contains instrumentation or alternatively a film score. But it can also feature songs that were sung or performed by characters in a scene (or a cover version of a song in the media, rerecorded by a popular artist), songs that were used as intentional or unintentional background music in important scenes, songs that were heard in the closing credits, or songs for no apparent reason related to the media other than for promotion, that were included in a soundtrack.
 
Soundtracks are usually released on major record labels (just as if they were released by a musical artist), and the songs and the soundtrack itself can also be on music charts, and win musical awards.
 
By convention, a *soundtrack* record can contain all kinds of music including music *inspired by* but not actually appearing in the movie; the *score* contains only music by the original film's composers.[11]
 
Contemporaneously, a soundtrack can go against normality, (most typically used in popular culture franchises) and contains recently released and/or exclusive never before released original pop music selections, (some of which become high charting records on their own, which due to being released on another franchises title, peaked because of that) and is simply used for promotional purposes for well known artists, or new or unknown artists. These soundtracks contain music not at all heard in the film/television series, and any artistic or lyrical connection is purely coincidental.
 
However depending on the genre of the media the soundtrack of popular songs would have a set pattern; a lighthearted romance might feature easy listening love songs, whilst a more dark thriller would compose of hard rock or urban music.
 
In 1908, Cam